all right here we go 5 4 3 2 1 yes
Hawaii man what's going on Joe I'm stuck
man I'm really good really glad to be
here I'm stoked - yeah nice to meet you
yeah dude you were on naked and afraid
sure was ah dude it's so it's so
ridiculous like to say ridiculous is
such an understatement see because they
often times will have like an actual
survival expert or a wildlife expert or
someone who knows how to live in the
woods
sure and that was the idea with you to
get a wildlife expert definitely I mean
I'm I'm kind of a combo like I I
practice primitive survival for many
years you know means to get closer to
wildlife like I just got back from the
Amazon and we had to feed ourselves
every day we had to build shelter blah
blah and I don't do it like for fun I do
it as a means to be out further and stay
longer kind of thing but it's got to be
a little bit of a conscious effort right
like to have fun like fishing fishing
and you know putting up shelter and
stuff it's got to be like kind of cool
to live like that for a little bit
it's it's human nature you know like we
we intrinsically want to hunt things and
fish things and build a shelter and
survive and so it's totally fun I think
it's like to your core it's fun you know
I mean you just feel it like you know
that you're doing something that's like
primal human nature you have the Amazon
fishing clips that you have on your
Instagram page it's crazy like you just
throw a cast out there and you were
catching a big fish like instantly
bonkers like I fished a lot of places
I'm really into fishing and spearfishing
and every Jo I'm not getting every
single cast was a fish a peacock bass
are piranhas every cast and and where we
were in the Amazon super remote like not
a lot of people go there I'm sure those
fish have never ever seen a lure never
seen a hook before and it wasn't like
sport fishing it was like okay let's go
catch ten fish in other words take ten
cast and we have enough food and that
was that and it was amazing
does it make you think of what the ocean
must have been like before people fucked
it up
of course I mean of course as a
biologist that's like all I can think
about because I was in Hawaii recently
and we did some snorkeling and when
you're swimming around with the goggles
on looking down at the ocean one of
things is kind of shocking is how few
fish there are I know like you think
this should be like team
with life you're over these reefs and
you see like three or four fish or a
fish or something like that it's so
weird I mean there's there are these
pockets left in the world that are
completely untouched and it's like as
soon as you get into one you can see it
you're like this is what it used to be
like everywhere and it's like humans
haven't had an impact I don't you know I
don't want to disparage anyone in Hawaii
but I don't think there's anywhere in
Hawaii like that because it's also
accessible yeah and it's just you know
I've been fortunate to see a couple of
these pockets and they're just booming
with stuff and it's like this is what it
could be yeah I mean I guess that's like
what it must be to just be in the Amazon
itself as well right your journey jungle
not just the rivers and the lakes or
whatever's out there but the actual
jungle itself it's it was incredible the
jungle there so we were in Colombian
Amazon and like talk about untouched by
people there's been this kind of ongoing
going conflict in Colombia for many many
years so we were the first Westerners to
go there in over 60 years so the village
we flew into that literally never seen
white people before and then we went 200
kilometers from that so like middle of
nowhere they won't touch you
so yeah hair because their hair was very
dark and very different and like I'm not
particularly fair but just to touch like
the hair and see the blue eyes and stuff
they were just love friendly super
friendly like the culture was very stoic
like there wasn't a lot of smiling or
crying you know there wasn't like a lot
of emotional exchange but straight away
they came and greeted us like shook
hands you know said hello it was really
cool Wow you know how do you set
something like that up do you have like
a liaison that they're like acts as a
go-between between you and the tribes
yeah so we did in this case have one guy
who communicated I speak Spanish
Spanglish I guess and they they all
speak Spanish from back in the day so we
set it all up it's part of the wildlife
stuff that I do we literally flew a dc-3
a World War two cargo plane into this
cocaine dealers airstrip my god that's
how we got there I mean like
mind-blowing stuff current cocaine
dealer a former former former yeah well
you know DVD it's still Colombia exactly
um so yeah I was that one was really
cool really remote how crazy is that
they learned Spanish from people who
came over on boats from Spain
it just stuck isn't that nuts and took
over the whole like Regis yeah the whole
world and and Sears this tribe in the
middle of the Amazon that has this
language from another continent well and
Brazil right from Portugal right it's
really incredible when you stop and
think about I mean we well it's it's
incredible but it's also a part of it's
a little sad like wouldn't you have
loved to have heard what their original
language was oh what it sounded like
well they did so it's funny because when
they didn't want us to understand what
they were talking about they would
switch to their native Indian language
so they still had they were bilingual a
community of twenty five people that
have never left and they're bilingual
wow that's amazing
now with their native languages what
what is it it's an Amazonian Indian
dialect I'd honestly don't even they
might have said the name but I don't
recall what is the name of their tribe
also I'm not even sure they're they're
so isolated they're unaware of what
country they live in they don't even
know that they're in Colombia really
really they're just like to them they're
Amazonian they're not Colombian
Ecuadorian Brazilian they're they're
Amazonian whoa yeah you know they just
stay like they are they stay and the
village we were in is literally I think
it's all over 200 kilometers from the
next next village of 15 or so people and
they don't have fuel they don't have
motors you know they just in this pocket
and they just substance live and they're
all barefoot right yeah do they have
those crazy splayed out feet big feet
you know they're they're not very big
people they're like small Indian people
but really big kind of useful feet and
the way that you know they could run up
and down trees and climb stuff I mean it
was unbelievable like so much more
athletic than you could imagine imagine
right they've been doing that their
whole life their whole lives yeah now
when like when I say splayed out feet
what I'm talking about is that people
that walk barefoot in the jungle for
long periods of time with their whole
life their toes spread out and their
feet almost look like a hand no way I
did not like pay enough attention that
might have been the case but I didn't
know that their feet exactly yeah is
kind of weird things stare at dudes feet
yeah for sure but um yeah Steve Rinella
who's a good friend of mine told me
about that he was in Guyana and is the
same thing and they are
got some pictures and videos of these
peoples feet but look at these guys up
there whoa oh no I didn't notice
anything like that yeah this is the
that's uh how do you say that hoorah
hoorah knee
hoorah knee hoorah knee sounds right
hoorah knee you think we're on E
hoorah knee Indian splayed feet so it's
very strange like it's the kind of the
opposite of what happens to women when
they Jam their feet into those little
pointy shoes right where they get the
the toes kind of smoosh onto each other
la fe yeah it's horrible
instead of that they're all like crazy
spread out what in the fuck is going on
there but guys like this hands I think
would yea the tops hands but the bottom
is like would feet but that's that's got
to be like what our feet are supposed to
be probably right right yeah thick ass
toes that actually have muscles in them
that move that you can use like a tool
like your yeah yeah so when these guys
just can climb up trees with them so
they grip the the side of the tree with
their feet like a hand oh I mean I
didn't notice like I say the feet just
like that specifically but the way they
could like everything's covered in mud
down there right it's all wet it rains
every day and they could run up and down
these tree trunks like to get up and
down the village and here's me and my
crew with our Awkward cameras and stuff
and we're slipping and sliding and
falling over and like they're they're
literally like what's wrong with these
people why can't they walk we must have
looked like infants today right and you
guys probably have like boots on and
shit of course he and fucked up and oh
yeah we're wearing you know muck boots
and my one buddy's got waders on and you
know we think we're all hard and cool
because we got all this gear and they're
just like running around in shorts
barefoot it is so fascinating when you
see people that don't have contact with
the outside world like I'm sure you're
aware of that recent story the
missionary was killed by the people in
North Sentinel island absolutely which
is one of the weirdest places because
they've branched off from Africa with
60,000 years ago or something like that
right when you're around these people
like what what do they do if they get
injured so funny you ask that because we
we kind of had that same question right
and they don't leave they stay in the
village they have a shaman at the
village who blessed us with a crazy
green powder and that's a whole nother
story
but
they have a shaman and he is their
doctor however he has no access to any
Western medicine so it's only his learn
and knowledge handed down through
generations plus jungle powders and
whatnot and and that's it so we actually
we spent two days we had a medic with us
doing like kind of village help if you
will
everybody had ringworm everybody had
respiratory infections there are a lot
of lady problems in the village that are
medic had to deal with I mean there was
a lot of health issues and you don't
even realize it write something down
before I forget I'm sorry totally
unrelated no good there's a doctor named
Peter Hotez that's come on the podcast
now to follow up when you start talking
about the people in the jungle he was
he's actual
is he specializes and infectious
diseases and jungle and tropical
climates and he's like everyone's
infected with something everyone
everyone he'd have a heyday down there
yeah I'm sure it's probably been yeah
but the so when these people have
ringworm and all these different
infections do they treat it do they have
like some naturopathic cure or some shit
I think it's kind of a fifty-fifty like
a lot of it they don't treat because
it's just part of everyday life like
when I say everybody had ringworm I
meant everybody had it so I don't think
there was any kind of treatment or cure
it was just kind of part of it part of
them but other things you know the the
the witch doctor or the shaman was
trying to treat and then we kind of went
in and we had like medication for
ringworm so we dewormed everybody and
with the shamans blessing and he was
like super excited to have Western
medicine in the village and would use
like lamisil or something like that I
couldn't tell you I think it was not it
wasn't topical I think it was like a ver
mocs like a pill that you take that
kills the kills the worms mm-hmm the
weird thing about that is like don't you
you leave and then they're gonna get it
again
right I mean there's only so much you
can do right yeah totally that we were
having the same dilemma and it was like
do we interfere because we're from the
outside world do we help and we talked
to the shaman through our translator and
he said please help please help so we
gave including him everybody this
dewormer but you know they'll just come
back yeah and also they probably don't
understand the consequences
of taking some antibiotic that's gonna
do some weird shit to your whole biome
right right
and these are all that stuff - it's such
a moral dilemma you're there and you're
like I want to help do i is it helpful
is it hindering our medic was like it's
undeniably gonna help you know they need
this and so we go we went for it and it
was you know it seemed to help everybody
felt fine but we were only there a
couple more days before we left so who
knows Wow when you're talking about
ringworm like these guys covered in it
they have big patches of it like what's
it like feet and legs had big patches of
it yeah yeah and this is a if you don't
know that's the same shit that's
athlete's foot oh I didn't know that
ringworm and athlete's foot of the same
kind of funk oh yeah that's why they
people tell you to pee on your feet but
I think that's the idea behind it is
that you're somehow or another you're
killing the bad bacteria and you you
piss on your feet and you have athlete's
foot that might be horseshit maybe yeah
with me you always have to check yeah I
definitely give that a little look-see
but it's a real common thing with
jiu-jitsu gotcha so guys all the mats
yeah it's real common so just guys get
it and there's people really fuck up
where they like put bleach on it and a
bunch of different things to try to kill
it and winds up getting worse and also
it fucks up all the natural skin flora
jock itch athlete's foot ringworm or all
types of fungal skin infections known
collectively as teeny teeny yeah tanea
they're caused by fungi called derma TRO
fights that live on the skin hair and
nails and thrive in warm moist areas the
jungle so it seems like they're just
gonna get it that's just what it sounds
like you know but with what do they do
for it I didn't see them treating that
at all and when we pointed it out
they're like yeah yeah we know about it
you know they were more concerned with
things that were like dire like there
was an infant maybe not even maybe three
years old and he was hacking up a lung
and he was asthmatic according to our
medic so my our medic gave them like an
asthma medication and he just said you
know if he has an attack where he can't
breathe give him this
and like you know to be super real with
you when we walked away our medic was
like I doubt he'll live to see adulthood
oh man yeah and were you giving him
inhalers did you give him I'm not sure
to be honest what it was that he left
with him and what about like injuries
what if they break a leg or something
like that what do they do I don't think
anything yeah it was anybody you gotta
think these people are climbing trees
they constantly fall get bitten by stuff
there's tons of venomous snakes out
there it's wet it's muddy it's slippery
they're building stuff out of very
rudimentary tools I mean it's it's nuts
they have to get injured it's so
interesting that we have this
understanding of medicine and doctors
and hospitals but that's probably pretty
fucking recent oh of course yeah I'll
tell you a story Joe I was in my anmar
early late last year and we're down
there filming this thing and this kid
like 22 year old crab fisherman gets
bitten by a crocodile Oh
croc grabs him by the arm grabs him by
the thigh and death rolls so it breaks
the arm in like I don't know 15 places
compound fracture the real deal I can
show you pictures I'll blow your mind
and we hear about this and we're minutes
away we just it's kind of one of the
similar situations where the first
Westerners to be there in a long time we
go bombing over at high speed can we get
there and the mom is like off mourning
the death of her child but her child is
sitting there still alive like they have
written him off and it's mom is mom is
literally mourning the death of her
child and he's lying there conscious but
like in total shock fortunately just
because of the situation we had a
speedboat everything else we bandaged
him up you know Ted tried to keep his
arm stable and his leg stable put him in
our speedboat it was six hours by
speedboat to a village that had a or to
a hospital really and so he got there
and his life was saved but I asked we
asked the the people in the village what
were you going to do and they're like
there's nothing we can do Wow so he was
just going to bleed out or go septic and
that was the end of it oh what a fucking
rough way to go right how did he get
away from the crocodile I don't know I
think he was just hitting it or
hammering on it he was crab fishing in
the water and it came up and grabbed him
rolled a few times and at some point he
escaped how he even got back in the bow
made it back to the village I have no
idea because his leg was shattered his
arm was shattered it was brutal and it
was a canoe you know it wasn't like he
had a little motor or a wheel to drive
canoed back one of the most disturbing
stories I ever read was these guys were
kayaking in an African river and the guy
in front of him got grabbed by a
crocodile and that it went under and
like it like plunged like a bobber as
the crocodile pulled him out of the
bottom of the kayak yeah I'm like fuck
it's awful imagine being the guy behind
him and just watching ya and knowing
that you're pretty much helpless did you
see any Jaguars or anything I've never
seen a Jaguar I've seen a lot of line
I'm from Africa I don't know if you knew
that but so I've seen a lot of lions
growing up my family did safaris and
then I've seen you know mountain lions
here in California leopard stuff like
that I've never seen a wild Jaguar
really and when you were in the Amazon I
think they're really elusive I know
there's areas that are our hotspots all
of the locals were very nervous and kind
of knew about them like you know I went
out for bush walks at night and stuff
and I just go me and one guy with a
camera and they were like whoa be
careful like peligroso you know very
dangerous don't do it
but her Grosso means very danger Grosso
likely gross danger yeah and so we just
go and you know I'm not trying to act
like we were tougher than them or
anything we would love to have seen one
but they were very aware of them so they
were there we just didn't happen to run
into one sort of like mountain lions
exactly yeah like they say that mountain
lions are like if you live in a place
that has them you know Wyoming or
Colorado or something like that they
know where you are right right you they
might be around you all the time and you
might rarely see them exactly they'd be
driving home you see one skittering into
the into the bush there was a nuts video
I think it was from the LA area did you
ever see it where the security cams
picked up this mountain lion that was
walking through this like very
residential neighborhood and you'd see
like people would walk by and then 30
seconds later he'd like tip out of the
shadows and then dip back in and then
the next set of people would walk by and
nobody had any clue he was there that's
crazy that giant predator can move
around like that right
yeah so when you're there like but what
would you have done if someone got bit
by a venomous snake or a spider or some
point out did you guys have any
anti-venom where you
prepared for something like that I mean
that's my department right like as the
wildlife guy that's that's kind of my my
department is make sure nobody gets
bitten make sure nothing like that
happens and we handled very very many
venomous snakes and caught anacondas and
all kinds of great stuff we did have
like my main camera guys name's Mitch he
got absolutely lit up by these wasps one
night and we all were we got like 12 14
stings each but I look back in the canoe
at one point and his eyes are just super
swollen he's bright red he's sweating
I'm like Mitchie okay he's like his
throat started to close up he was having
an allergic reaction so we had to hit
him with antihistamines and I'm not
actually sure if the medica administered
the EpiPen or not but he was like we're
in the middle of jungle were six hours
from a village that's then a full day's
travel by a charter plane from a
hospital I mean middle of fucking
nowhere and and his throat's closing up
and think that's why we take a medic
with us thankfully we had this emergency
Medicaid administered the antihistamines
and Mitch was okay but these things do
happen
do you ever like like while you're on
these crazy adventures do you ever out
there going this is the last one no no
no whatever no way man I love it I live
for it Wow how long you been doing this
I mean like for TV for Animal Planet
three years I guess but to go on X the
reason I got into that and doing it for
TV is because I've been doing it like my
whole life I grew up in Zimbabwe my mom
was a bush pilot so when we weren't on
safari she was like flying us these
remote place in the middle of bush and
we were going out on safari and like as
long as I can remember
this has been what I do now when you go
on safari you and those open jeeps
walking safaris whoa yeah what are you
doing we take a four five eight an
elephant gun okay put it on your
shoulder it helps walking safari damn
man only during the day right yes I
cannot move at night and what do you do
when you're confronted I mean I've had
some pretty close calls my wife Jess
who's here with me I saved her from a
hippo oh yeah we've had some pretty
close calls fuck man one of my the
scariest pictures ever saw was this guy
this African guy running down the street
and the hippos chasing them and you look
at the size of the hippo and you look
good Christ that thing is huge they
Joe they are these scariest animals on
earth like interacting with a
hippopotamus they're so erratic they're
so unpredictable if they're feel
threatened at all I mean they're just
this video is fucking bananas this is
this guy's on a rope motorboat and the
hippo is swimming after him like a
torpedo so this is where I'm from this
isn't Bob way really yeah so is this
common that they swim that fast they can
move I mean this that this is uncommon
to have one chase the boat and come that
close but uh fucking big it is man yeah
so when you've had these Close
Encounters what do you do you shoot at
the air I shoot at the ground scare them
away fortunately I've I've never had to
put an animal down but I know people
that have a picture look at that's it
that's the one what in the fuck how fast
is that big bastard run I don't know
you'd have to look up the exact speed
but definitely at top speed definitely
faster than human but they don't have
the maneuverability you know you can
kind of duck and dodge behind trees just
don't run a straight line exactly
exactly
fuck that my team yeah yeah what does a
person run a rhino Bruns 31 Jesus Christ
Jesus a fucking cheetah can read 75
miles an hour huh I thought it was like
50 uh fuck yeah
75 a crocodile's almost as fast as the
fucking hippo yeah they're good three
miles an hour for a croc fuck that be
for sprinters around 21 22 maybe yeah
that's also a sprinter right in a
sprinter not a doughy white guy like us
fuck Jesus Christ
so you just if you're chased by a hippo
is there a move that you do do you just
have to go left and right
zigzag yeah maneuverability get so like
when we got chased we got behind a
termite mound and then it kept going
straight behind termites yeah nothing
says safety like terma it's my god dude
that's so crazy fuck Matt is that this
so that's the scariest thing in Africa
in terms of like interacting with human
beings you know what the scariest thing
in Africa is mosquitoes oh yeah right
like all all stuff you can see all the
big wildlife you can kind of feel it out
and you put your
self in the bad situations mosquitos
there's nothing you know I mean you just
do about it yeah my buddy Justin Wren he
runs fight for the Forgotten charity
they build wells for the pygmies okay
and he's been bitten
he's got malaria three times yeah and
one time he got it like he didn't even
get bit again the malaria just returned
live so it must be in some way systemic
I think I believe it is I don't I don't
never had it knock on wood my
grandfather had it but I know that it's
it wrecks you for life like it can come
back you can get it again yeah it stays
with you I think that's his situation
and he's a professional athlete he's
actually a fighter for Bellator ease one
of their uh heavyweight contenders damn
yeah and he said that it's affected his
performance no I don't think it has I
think I think he's been okay with it you
know he received treatment but it's
definitely wrecked him on three separate
occasions where he was you know
basically on death's door right right
and one of them was in he's flying back
damn you know and he's just sweating and
just rotting out in the inside awful so
you want to ask what scares me that's it
yeah like I would I'll take a hippo a
snake a croc leopard anything over that
yeah malaria is terrifying yes a malaria
is killed more people than anything ever
really yeah malaria is killed half the
people that have ever died oh my god
that's insane just make sure that's
right there might be bullshit too it
sounds good I think it's real I think I
think we actually have googled this
before the malarious literally killed 50
percent of all the people that have ever
died
that's insane yeah it's not to me people
were worried about so many different
things you should be worried about
mosquito exactly well apparently they're
trying to genetically engineer
mosquitoes to to be void of yet avoid of
malaria and they hybridize right so my
understanding is the way that it's done
is they genetically engineer the males
to reproduce with the females which are
the malaria carriers and then the
offspring of that generation can no
longer carry malaria
yeah okay malaria killed half the people
who have ever lived that is bonkers it's
a myth what's up yeah what if I don't
kill it says like five and a half
million people on average per year every
year for all of human history and that's
not a thing it kills half a million a
year I think the real numbers like I
said that would have to be five and a
half okay
so it's just one of those things that
people say yeah I like it I should
probably shut the fuck off but what else
is new so how many people have they
killed oh okay we'll go with a lot so
other other doesn't mean this out like
typhoid and shit
isn't there like a fucking case of
typhoid in California now right yeah
yeah yeah well we've got some weird
situations in this country with you know
measles returning and polio returning
all these bola came in yeah what the
hell outbreaks expands in LA and Long
Beach jeez cool thanks for having me
down here Joe congratulations it was my
hand was sweaty man I sure that are
different but it's different it's
similar but different it's not typhoid
it's typhus
so hopefully born disease that can be
treated with antibiotics yeah I'm
terrified of Lyme disease to have you
add lime no but I have a gang of friends
that have had it and it wrecks them well
you spend a ton of time hiking around
out here yeah
well California doesn't have much lime
but East Coast it's horrific
it's like everybody that spends time
outdoors in the Northeast seems to get
yeah and I don't know what you can do
about that there was a vaccine that they
were doing for a while but one of my
friends her dad actually got Lyme
disease from the vaccine huh like he
didn't have it got vaccinated and wound
up catching it from the vaccine I think
they were like okay fuck this sorry
they had it for a while up geez yeah
that's no fun yeah so when you were a
kid you were you were doing this like
you've been involved so this is like the
family business sort of my family
business is my mom's business actually
was safari businesses so like like you
say sit in the Land Rover see the
animals kind of thing and they did a
little bit of tourists walking safaris
but then I grew up on a farm in the
outskirts of Harare Zimbabwe and then
whenever I wasn't in school I was on the
running around barefoot catching snakes
fishing yada yada and then when my mom
wasn't booked up she had this little
bush plane that she used for safaris and
we just adventure all over Africa Wow so
it's a great childhood that sounds
amazing but fucking terrifying I mean
it's like one of those things where it's
what you're used to right I found moving
to the States at age 14 and like trying
to find my like place in the world being
this weird little private school kid
from Africa way more terrifying than
going to meet a tribe in the middle of
the bush really for sure yeah why like
I'll give you examples like I always
carry a pocket knife on me right my
first day here in the States
I go to school pull my pocket I'm
sitting in my like uniform so I went to
a very proper English boarding school
pull out my pocketknife start cutting my
Apple 15 minutes later I'm in handcuffs
I'm like what did i do what did i do I
literally had no idea what I had done
wrong because I had a knife at school
everybody I had ever been to school with
had a knife to cut their Apple like it
was the standard thing so here I am with
like police and you know guns and badges
and they're throwing me in handcuffs and
taking me out of the school on day one
in America and I'm like this is the
scariest thing I've ever seen and I
didn't even learn until later that day
that it was because I had a pocketknife
and at no point did I think having a
pocketknife was a bad thing so they
didn't tell you no they just grabbed me
there was like this whole thing like the
knife went flying I was chained up and I
was like what's going on what's going on
and they're like you're in big trouble
and ask why and it was like little
culture shock things like that that to
me were like something I'd done every
day my whole life and now I'm like
getting thrown in juvie for it kind of
thing when you think back about that do
you think that's just the consequences
of being in a large population for sure
yeah yeah I mean like we like I say I
went to school every day with a knife
there was no violence issues there was
nothing like that
but then you come here where you know
there's stabbings and stuff like that
and it's because you know we had a time
I lived in a tiny country with a tiny
population do you think that it's
possible that I mean stupid but there's
no way you could live like that over
here I mean there's no way you can have
kids with a bunch of knives no I don't
know this culture I don't think so at
all I think that would be terrible and I
get it now as nobody talked to you about
it before you left the house no my mom
didn't know she's from Africa
you know she's like here are your things
here's my cool put it my bitches sharpen
it before you so you were doing these
always doing these walking safaris you
started out doing the driving ones and
then eventually you start doing the
walking ones my family business did
walking safaris they didn't do hunting
it was all photographic and we were in
the Zambezi Valley so Zambezi River is
one of the biggest rivers in the world
so we do these walking safaris and then
we did canoe safaris as well which is
why I have so many hippo and croc
stories because we'd be canoeing down
the Zambezi River and then taking
photographs and seeing wildlife that way
wow what a crazy way to grow up and it
was your relationship to wildlife this
is so different than the average person
yes country for sure it's very intimate
like I I I feel like I have like
regardless of being a scientist by trade
I feel like I have a very intimate
understanding of animals because I grew
up completely surrounded by them now
what other countries have you explored
I'm over sixty countries now damn yeah
so a lot all for wildlife work whether
it's for the show that I do or for
biology contracts before I did the show
or just because like for instance when I
got done with college I was like I had a
little tiny little business start in
college sold it and was like I'm gonna
travel the world and try and photograph
these animals and I went to 28 countries
looking for wildlife did you have
something to do with looking for the
Tasmanian tiger
yeah yeah I did know what do you think I
think of all the extinct animals that
have gone extinct at the hand of man
given the range I don't know if you know
this but the tasmanian tiger at one
point range from Papua New Guinea all
the way down to Tasmania so not just the
island of Tasmania but thousands tens of
thousands of miles I think given the
range the frequency of sightings the
amount of untouched habitats in
Australia and Tasmania and Papua New
Guinea where they just found the new dog
species by the way they did yeah the
Highland dog in New Guinea maybe a year
ago now incredible looking animal like
absolutely could there be a very small
remnant population of thylacine
tasmanian tiger hiding out in a isolated
pocket of habitat I totally think it's
possible and these sightings are they
coming from credible sources so I did I
did one expedition I've done two
expeditions looking for thylacine and
one of them I was literally talking to
man who is the head Park Ranger for like
the entire North Queensland so he's a
scientist by trade a biologist by degree
and he says I saw four of them whoa you
know so this isn't like some crackpot
drunk who's like yeah there are they're
here you know this is a guy who is like
myself a scientist a biologist and
spends his life in the bush he knows
every animal in that area he goes I saw
four of them Wow
so like how do you not like I get goose
bumps talking about it cuz how do you
not like take that as credible no that's
about as credible as it gets well look
at that cool-looking dog there it is
what a freaky looking - the world's
rarest and most ancient dog has been
rediscovered in the wild so this New
Guinea Highlander was thought to be
extinct is that that's right yep Wow so
this thylacine this area is where where
they are has there been a concerted
effort to find these things sort of I
mean it's it's one of those things where
like I would say the thylacine is like
the icon of animals coming back from
extinction for Australia right it's kind
of like everybody knows about in
Australia they're all care about it but
where these efforts are is like outside
of Sydney or you know what I mean it's
it's close to home so there hasn't been
a lot of expeditions really deep into
look for them hmm and that's what I did
so there's so much belief that the
animal is still out there that the shoot
it's the University in Cannes I'm
blanking on the name of it right now the
university itself put money towards
funding to find it so when you have a
credible institution like a university
going here's money go and find this
thing you've got to think and I'm not a
big conspiracy theorist but you've got
to think they have some Intel that says
look we're not wasting our money to look
for something that's not there we've
heard something we've seen something we
caught something on a trail camera let's
prove it and so I actually teamed up
with they caught something on a trail
camera hard to say but what they did do
is fund this expedition so myself and
the University who's still ongoing with
the research when it looked in this area
in North Queensland where I went and how
far deep did you go in 1,200 miles 1,200
miles yep it took 14 hours driving and
then hiking from there whoa yeah 14
hours on dirt road because this is the
area where they've been sighted the most
numerous this is where that sighting
that I was talking about came from from
the biologist as well as I think for
other sightings the community up there
is a place called Portland
ODEs you could look it up I think it's
12 people and Wow
live totally not like the Amazon off the
grid but off the grid you know it's all
like solar energy and build-it-yourself
there's no power lines blah blah so it's
just this small group of kind of like
people in the middle of nowhere and
almost everybody in that community has
seen them so that's that's where we
based it out of and then went deep from
almost everyone in the community and no
one's took in a photograph that they
have cameras everybody's you know
everybody's got a cell phone kind of
thing but it's like it's all it's always
the same story where it's like yeah it
was there it was late at night by the
time I reached in my pocket it it had
gone off except for the biologist I was
telling you about who said it ran around
with his dogs he's out camping and he's
like oh there's this red eye shine and
my dog goes nuts and runs over there and
then there's four thylacine jumping
around with my dog like for like 15
minutes and he's like I'm trying to get
a picture and you know that's like 300
yards away it's in the dark and without
the flashlight and the phone and like
fuck yeah and so it's basically a
hundred percent of this thing's alive I
mean as a scientist you can never put
that number but to me yes
that's why I've done two expeditions and
I plan on doing more I feel it's out
there like it's a gut feeling that it's
there did you ever see that there was a
woman Defoe movie yeah hunter the hunter
that's right and he goes and shoots the
last one yeah it didn't really work
right the movie was off it's very
strange and there was like a scientific
reason he had to find it or kill it or I
don't know it was almost paying him
wasn't it did someone hire him to do it
but wasn't there a like he was a bounty
hunter for the animal because it had
some weird genome or I I don't remember
it was a member there yeah so but that's
how they died off right people hunting
them put a bounty on them yeah that's
how bad it was
yeah when settlers came to Tasmania
which was the last stronghold for him
they were they were killing sheep and
sheep farmers things and the government
was like get rid of him you know put a
bounty on him what year was this
you'd have to cross-check it's been a
while since I've read read up on that
but the last ones died off in like the
early 1900s right that's right the one
is you think yeah they're all freaky
looking animal there is one set of
footage from it ever from the one in the
Hobart to and it's you look at it's
insane looking creature yes
yeah just nuts you got that
by the video - something playing oh so
playing um yeah it's a freaky animal it
doesn't even look real
it looks like like a cross between a
tiger and a dog or something and it's
and it's kangaroo by genetics it's a
marsupial it's got a pouch and it's just
so weird stripes and that's a strange
thing about Australia and that whole
area is like how did what's this
marsupial thing and why didn't that
catch on anywhere else there it is look
at him there's that freaky thing wait
till you see that there's a shot where
he kind of turns his face and and does
like a yawn and you'll see he can open
his jaw the way like a snake does to
almost 180 degrees I mean it's it's
bizarre yeah just swallow bullet coyotes
are kind of like that - not quite so
extreme but right when you see a coyote
yawning you're like what right the fuck
look at that oh that's so great isn't
that insane yeah it's like a crocodile
almost yeah yeah yeah a strange animal
man I'm I'm obsessed with him I'm
totally fascinated by him yeah I hope
you get a photo of these fuckers yeah me
too I mean do they
so I've in that area did you guys set up
trail cams and we did 200 trail cameras
Wow yeah and then the university that we
partnered with who didn't go as remote
as we did but they're still doing a big
area I think they have 10,000 10,000
trails something crazy like maybe it's a
thousand it's a huge number so what do
you do with those how does that work so
you do like a grid pattern right so you
know how trail camera works motions
activated blah blah so they just they
literally here's the mountains here's
whatever and they set out all these like
undergrads and they're like place one
every three hundred meters pointing you
know in this direction blah blah blah
blah and they just do a grid and they do
that for a month two months whatever it
is collect them all and then move to the
next grid and then move to the next grid
and just blanket the area and I think I
could be wrong on this but I think the
search that they're doing that
University is going to be the most
comprehensive trail camera survey ever
conducted and so as far as you know they
don't have a photo of one yet
as far as we know but think of it this
way again I'm not a big conspiracy guy
but if you're if you're impersonating my
tea when it's like my this price closest
they have a there's a lot of these could
be there's new one that just came out
whoa see to me that's a mangy fox that's
not a thioester No
look at the base of the tails very thin
it's carrying in an upward curve instead
of straight like if you look at
kangaroos tail it's very flat there's a
lot of Fox problems in Australia where
they're introduced could be wrong you
know as a scientist I try not to get too
excited when I see something that I'm
like this is it but it's hard to tell
because the way the grass is sure makes
it look he's got stripes on his back
looking like ah mm-hmm Wow a trail-cam
has captured an image that is excited to
esme knee and tiger hunters to the
possibility the animal may roam freely
across Australia Wow how big is that
thing
they're like coyote sized very similar
to a coyote in size Wow yeah so um don't
you think though that if they had
definitive footage that they would
release it to try to get more funding
and dude the problem is footage isn't
definitive anymore like two years last
year I got a photo of a leopard in
Zanzibar the first time in 25 years the
animals declared extinct and we caught a
video not even a photo a video of a
Zanzibar leopard and took it up the
chain and they're like until unless we
have genetic proof the animal remains
extinct so I think you know so the phone
yeah yeah come on well so yeah I think
that I think you know if the University
had something they're trying to get
enough data to really present a case as
opposed to like you know throwing up a
flag over something into one individual
well is there a concern that's the a
bunch of amateur wildlife hunters would
go there what is this Jim there it is
that's my library the leopard yeah Wow
did you uh have you seen that photo or
the footage rather of the Jaguar that
they found in Arizona
yeah yeah that's really interesting too
right amazing they're starting to make
their way up from Mexico it's such a
weird region that because here's this
huge Sonoran Desert that you think none
of these tropical animals can make it
across and for whatever reason Southern
Arizona gets Jaguars and coatimundi and
peccary and all these like tropical
animals yeah what what the hell I don't
know the answer what the hell's going on
that all these rainforest creatures are
making it through this thousand mile
stretch of desert and into southern
Arizona hardboard it could be acre for a
cool cool places to visit yeah you know
maybe they I mean maybe it's just like a
natural instinct to roam and
and your territory there he is yeah look
at that thing amazing that's an
incredible animal so beautiful and it's
huge huge there-there 200-plus pounds
right have a big fuckin aggressive cat
what's bigger a Jaguar or a leopard
leopard leopard yeah yeah and that's
even bigger mm-hmm but it's a such a
beautiful animal too and apparently they
were all over North America Jaguars in
time yeah like that area like Texas
during the Pleistocene yeah interesting
I didn't even know that but um when did
they I mean they were pushed out of feel
like that might not be true though I
feel like they were they were more
numerous in like Arizona and like the
Southwest makes sense I mean you know we
had so much megafauna here back in the
day there would have been a lot of prey
for them now because of the fact he
spent so much time in the wild and you
know and that you have this interest in
these what would you call cryptozoology
animals I'm not a crypto guy so just to
be clear and nothing against crypto guys
but I don't do Loch Ness or Bigfoot or
anything I'm a true wildlife biologist
so I only focus on wildlife so not to
interrupt you but I'm just very very
structured in the sense that I really
only look for animals that we we have an
understanding of right yeah right well
yeah but the Bigfoot one is the the most
compelling but also probably the most
bullshit I think there's a mix there I
think people believe that they've seen
certain things you know it's it's do I
think that there could have been large
primates that we attribute to Bigfoot
sure whether they're still here or not
whether people have ever seen them I I'm
so like not well read on that isn't it
interesting though that if there was one
it would probably be the most
spectacular find ever absolutely but
meanwhile we have chimps and bonobos
right you know we have all these things
that are real well because there's so
much like lore and culture associated
with it right and not just like our
Western culture but like cave paintings
of big hairy creatures and like
everything I mean it would be like this
mind-blowing discovery have you ever
went and looked for the bondo ape no I
know what it is but no no never gotten
airborne there sure that's a real thing
really yeah they've got skulls and hair
samples and photographs and video
and for people don't know what we're
talking about two gigantic chimpanzee
right like a six-foot tall chimpanzee
and it's just fucking nuts and it does
walk a rack right sometimes yeah yeah
there's a camera trap photo there's a
guy named dr. Karl oh no he's not a
doctor thing's name's Karl Harmon call
Karl something Harmon is that Oman Oman
crawl Oman and he's a it was a swiss
wildlife photographer anyway set up a
bunch of camera traps and he got one go
on walking I mean it's it's freaky and
there's some photos of these gentlemen
that shot one near an airstrip huh and
it's fucking huge you don't know how big
the the men are right they might be
small and in front of them but it is
without a doubt like one of the biggest
chimpanzees you've ever seen since and
yeah they have a crest on their head
their skull has a crest like a gorilla
huh yeah it has like the the bone of the
skull picture that I'd love to see it
I'm not not familiar with the anatomy of
them yeah it's um it's really
interesting because I think for the
longest time they didn't think they're
real is a part of that Michael Crichton
book Congo okay remember there was a
really terrible movie that fucker
yeah that's insane yeah that's one of
them and that thing that doesn't look
like force perspective you know what I
mean it looks like they're right in
front of them and that's one from the
early 1900's I believe where these guys
shot one and there were like what is
this this is just giant chimp go did you
see if you find the one of their it read
above is the one that where it's walking
right there yeah oh that's the show man
walking and he's erect
yeah he's erect and he's you know is he
these people that one of one of the
sightings they saw one walked by a truck
like walk across a road they said it was
the same height as the truck that's
insane so they have like you know like a
Toyota Hilux or something her head and
it's literally the size the height like
a six foot tall man but a giant chimp
and I mean you know to go back to the
Bigfoot thing you can totally see where
we get that from right sure you look at
this huge primate that's the size of a
human being and your brain instantly
goes it's mythological and I'm pretty
sure
that they didn't have photos of this
thing until the 20th century like the
late 20th century no kidding yeah that's
amazing yeah it's a trip man this they
nest on the ground like like really yeah
yeah Wow and the locals have two
different name for two different names
for chimps they call them tree beaters
and lion killers huh and the tree
beaters are the ones that are up in the
trees a smaller chimps sure and the lion
killers are these big ones that live on
the ground man apparently there's some
either video footage or there was some
eyewitness account of one of them eating
a leopard no way so it was a dead
leopard that they were eating whether or
not they killed it or they found it but
they were eating this fucking regardless
like to be a primate at the top of the
food chain eating a big cat I mean
that's nuts it's not would you ever
think of going there and trying to find
those things look yeah they're deep in
there great yeah I think they're in a
place called Billy Billy in the Congo
that's what they think they are they've
isolated a population of them they're
really my mom just got back from the
Congo and she still does like her own
adventure stuff and she was saying it's
just like she's been all over as well
she's like it's mind-blowing like
there's so much remoteness and unstudied
area that there could be all kinds of
things
damn now what what kind of medication do
you have to take if you're gonna go
there because you have to take some anti
malarial stuff dude I'm a pin cushion
like I've had so many shots and pills
and you know like preventative obviously
I actually don't do malaria medication I
just cover up because it messes with
your brain I don't know if you know that
like they say then the modern ones
aren't bad but the Malarone like you
have loose nations at night you have
crazy sweats like especially if you're
in hot Sun so I would rather be more
focused especially if I'm working with
reptiles or stuff like that that can you
know envenomate me so I try to try to
stay away from it and just cover up Wow
is there a specific type of clothing
that's like anti mosquito repellant
clothing or anything like that I just do
long sleeves and some bug spray and you
do a mask as well
no no that's silliness really it looks
silly no I just do you know good old
deep God that stuff's gotta be bad for
to them it melts you like if you get it
on like say these things it will melt
the painting off the paint off of the
headphones it's so strong it's probably
worse in the mouth have you ever used a
thermoset what does they call them
fucking is it called a thermos l I think
this was called it's it's a device that
heats up it's got like an element inside
of it and like a little bit little
canister of gasoline and you put these
sheets and it releases this very fine
mist onokay smell and mosquitos fucking
hate it no way yeah we used it in
Alberta huh Alberta has very aggressive
mosquitos when they're out yep when
they're out they're out it's a clouds of
them right yeah cuz you're only alive
for like three months all right it's
like Alaska you've been a last night
it's the worst mosquitos I've ever seen
crazy I pick you up yeah they're like
there's size of pigeons and their family
everywhere totally I went fishing with
my friend Ari and we pulled up the the
car and we got out of the car and we
opened the car door and within seconds a
swarm of mosquitoes was inside the car
it's insane we were screaming like what
the fuck this is crazy it's like
something out of a Stephen King movie
like there's clouds and they III yeah
that's why you asked me what I'm scared
of it's that fucking clouds of
mosquitoes man well we're very fortunate
we don't have malaria here in the United
States yep absolutely that if it made
its way over here somehow
you know I am I wear this fabric you're
talking about thermos l called hex oh
yeah yes yes hex exactly and I work for
a lot of reasons because I definitely
feel it helps me get closer to wildlife
but I've noticed mosquitoes do not like
it really so that's that's what a heck
suit is for people that don't know what
we're talking about sure so it's this
interwoven carbon grid that actually
holds the body's electrical energy and
capacity like the door of microwave oven
like a Faraday cage right and so you you
naturally emit electrical energy and
then when you wear this clothing it's
got this conductive carbon grid and when
you touch the ground or something at
grounds it releases all the energy so
birds migrate you're losing
yeah there you go now has it been proven
that this stuff actually were I mean it
has been proved that it has an effect on
the electrical energy that you release
but has it been proven that the animals
can actually recognize that electrical
energy with sir
animals yes so we know that
electroreception is certain laud life's
capable of it birds use it to migrate
sea turtles use magnetic poles to
migrate they just discovered I believe
2014 that lobsters antennae have
electrical detective sensors
electroreception is the word so it's
proven on some things not everything you
know our understanding of animal
behavior and animal adaptability is
constantly growing so it's passive you
know what I mean I wear it because it's
a passive technology it's like I'm gonna
wear a shirt anyway why not wear one
that might or might not help so my feel
it helps my friend John Dudley is a bow
hunter
yeah pretty famous bow hunt I know John
yeah okay and he swears by it yeah he
wears them constantly I it makes a big
difference I think so you know like I'm
I'm not hunting I'm just trying to get
close to stuff and interact with it or
find something but I feel it makes a
difference you notice a difference
personally especially with Birds
I've noticed a huge difference I've
noticed a huge difference in the water
some mammals I've noticed the difference
but yeah I like John I feel like it's it
helps me get closer and you know it
keeps keeps the energy down do you know
what I mean like you're emitting all
this energy you see this bear or
whatever it is your heart spikes your
adrenaline goes and it keeps that in
capacity so I think we sense that I
think certain creatures sense that and I
I like to keep that out of the equation
right the I guess it would be that there
is something coming off of your body and
it probably would be an advantage for
animals to be able to recognize that
just because we can't quantify it right
and put it on a scale and weigh it or
something like that's probably something
going on predator prey right like yeah
if you're a lion and I'm an antelope and
my adrenaline spikes and my heart's
going and you know you're gonna come for
me but if that's out of the equation the
energy stays reduced well that's one of
the weirder video some of the weirder
videos that I've seen I should say was
people that are interacting with
predators so who like people that have
like coyotes come right up to them while
they're wearing those things yep yeah
and and turkeys as well it totally like
I said Birds because birds birds have
that in their brain they have I'm gonna
quote it wrong but they have something
that they can detect electrical signals
with what helps them migrate around the
world so for sure I think
the difference yeah so what else do you
use use the hex suit a ton of different
tools man I mean I customized stuff you
know like in the Amazon we were looking
for caiman and type of crocodile so I
melt like a beefed-up dog catcher that I
used to try and last sue them I have a
snake hook on me at all times cook yeah
that's a snake hook so it's just this
like it's like a golf club with a hook
on the end so I can work with venomous
snakes without it reaching back and
grabbing well doesn't restrain them it
actually like their body sits in it I do
a lot of reptile stuff so I always have
a snake hook on me I mean the list goes
on ton of trail cameras I use a lot of
thermal-imaging stuff like especially
like looking for wolves or something
like that we you know wolves are active
at night it's really hard to get a shot
of them put a thermal bird in the air
and you can see these these animals
running through valleys Wow
yeah it's cool stuff you'd love it well
I'm fascinated by wolves I think that
wolves to me are probably the most
interesting animal in the wild canids
man wild dogs of all kind are
unbelievable they're so at the top of
their respective food chain yeah we have
a lot of coyotes around here and yeah
basically they're little wolves the
little sneaky wolves but real wolves
like wolves in Yellowstone
you know wolves in the northwest yeah
area of the United States though they
have got to be some of the most majestic
animals fantastic they were there they
operate together yeah always
these packs yep you know so there's some
sort of weird kind of communication and
and what's amazing is like the social
dynamic like within the pack you know
the hierarchy and then on a hunt like
you go left I go right but without any
verbal communication right right and
then coming together and making a kill I
mean it's mind-blowing stuff you know
you talk about not understanding
wildlife we don't understand how they do
that right right we don't understand
what kind of communication is going on
do you think there's some sort of like
telepathic or is it just facial and
recognizing cues and patterns that
they've established before of they see
an animal they know to flank it I
definitely believe it's that like I
definitely believe there is an intrinsic
understanding of you go left I go right
you know facial recognition
your your expression tells me to do
something you're dominant I'm passive
you know learning that way but I also
think there's something more than that
whether it's telepathic whether it's a
low frequency sound that where it's not
audible to us I have no idea but I do
think it's more than just visual cues
that's where the apparently the myth of
the werewolf comes from is that wolves
are so smart they think that wolf and a
person were like combined together I I
don't believe that per se but I can see
how that came up you know I mean it's
totally they're so smart African wild
dogs are the same like they they hunting
these huge packs they go over these
massive areas and then they'll push a
single animal into one area to make the
kill and they're not big animals there
again like our coyote size and they'll
take down you know a kudu or some huge
antelope I mean it's it's incredible
well African wild dogs are so
cool-looking - those black spots yellow
and all the stunning they just they look
angry they look freaky looking
you know there's III think they're
they're my favorite of the kid like you
love wolves I love African Wild Dogs I
just think they're so beautiful and
majestic and unusual and they're just
such a cool animal correct me if I'm
wrong but I think all of them come from
the United States I think all of them
originally came from North America like
I think Canada yeah all candidates came
from North America I think that's coyote
America the gentleman who's been on the
podcast before what is his name is
escaping me right now but he he wrote
about it huh about you know all the the
various and with it jackals and Flores
Dan Flores that's it he's that is a
fascinating book yeah I'm gonna write it
down yeah I'd love to read it great and
I did a podcast with him years ago
that's excellent too and he he has all
sorts of crazy insight as to Native
American North American animals that
went somewhere else like horses like
horses were native to North America but
they weren't here when the European
settlers came they did they went extinct
they had been taken they had there were
other places like apparently wild horses
from Europe all originated from North
America and were taken over and then how
or another well from whatever and then
went extinct here
were reintroduced with the European
settlers huh that's interesting crazy
yeah it's fat and that's the thing like
with what I do looking for extinct
animals or proof that they're still out
there is like there are so many stories
like that I didn't know that one in
specific America is very well covered
with eyeballs but what's to say there
isn't some remnant small population
somewhere in the middle of nowhere that
nobody has found these horses that have
been untouched by human beings for
millennia right and that's that's what I
that's what I do that's what drives me
right find this pocket find this animal
that's been hiding out undetected for
thousands of years yeah
so what other animals are you looking
for a lot like we're talking about
primates I'm going to Borneo to look for
an animal called the millers grizzled
Langer it's a type of monkey I just got
back I was looking for an extinct caiman
in the Amazon stink caiman yeah what's
the difference in that in the Caymans
that you see just a different species
you know just like there's many types of
crocodile there's many types of caiman
you know you have saltwater crocodiles
now a crocodile the same thing with
caiman and I was looking for one with a
very weird morphological variant it
looks very very different to any other
what's different but it's got a very
elongated snout
if you've ever seen agario if you know
what that is type of crocodile with this
long crazy nose it's like the alligator
family that came and family version of
that this really long skinny face super
light super yellow coloration just very
different last time one was seen was 52
years ago and then they had one in the
zoo that died in the 80s and nobody's
found one since so just really cool and
so yeah the list goes on you know last
year I did leopards and I did wolves and
Newfoundland and a bunch of really
interesting stuff so it's fun man you
love it you should come with I'll talk
to him again I'm such a pussy
what about giant sloths what are your
feelings on those so I've had probably
three years of research into this into
giant sloths because Matt Nana who agree
I believe is how it's said it's the
South American name for giant sloths
there's I don't want to give away too
much info before I get to do a chance a
chance at looking for it but after all
the research I've compiled there is in
my opinion one location on earth it's in
hi Peru where nobody goes it's a bowl of
mountains impenetrable the only way and
is a helicopter in the center to me that
that ball is going to be like a
primordial Eden all of the cultures
surrounding it have old stories of giant
sloths they all have different names for
it but they all have these stories of
these giant sloths right they were all
hunted to extinction however they've
handed down these traditions but nobody
except for you know a tiny handful of
like far-out tribal people have ever
really got into this impenetrable ball
and I think if they're anywhere they're
in there Wow
I saw a documentary once about this
scientist that was essentially risking
his reputation trying to find a giant
sloth somewhere that's that maybe in the
Amazon somewhere probably Peruvian
Amazon that's where I'm thinking too and
he he kept talking to people that had
seen it and he never could get ahold of
it but he had been there for years
isn't it crazy though like why yeah what
if you're a little Amazonian villager
you don't read you don't have TV there's
no reason to make up scientific you know
science fiction why say you've seen it
because you like to fuck with white
people could be could be you're
exhausted covered with mosquito bites
he's like any day now yeah yeah just
over the next hill he's gonna wait for
you to fucking rot out there'll be a
mean man that's a mean guy you wanna log
all right buddy
patch on the back there's the last spot
for you and I'll be taking this yeah
I'll take your binocular yeah yeah I
mean yeah there's no reason for them to
lie but right it doesn't that's like the
thing that people say about everything
why was your in lie well people why for
a bunch of weird reasons people do it
people are crazy shit up true yeah yeah
I mean to me it's like you have to take
an eyewitness report of an extinct
creature or zoo crypto creature with a
grain of salt yeah but you still have to
take it do you know what I mean you
still have to bank it and consider it
yeah and so that's that's kind of the
way I go I I always talk to people but
then I come up with I do the biology
right I track I put the cameras
I paid I sent I do all of that stuff to
try and get evidence of my own because
just going with eyewitness reports is
like you say it's nothing is there ever
been any eyewitness reports that are
just too too ridiculous where you like
oh for sure like what
oh man loads I mean like talk about the
thylacine for instance there was a guy
that we met there who's like yeah
there's Styles seen everywhere they run
around with the black cats and we're
like what he's like yeah there's Black
Panthers - they like hang out together
black I'm lengthers in Australia exactly
that I made the same face you did so I'm
like okay tell me more and he's like
yeah you know they like to hang out over
there there behind the trash heap they
jump around with Black Panthers oh
they're just fucking and I'm like
alright well that's the thing I'm like
you're you're just you're either crazy
or you're completely fucking with me and
I'm not sure which one it is because
your eyes are telling me crazy
well yeah well I mean how many different
pockets in the world are there like that
Basin that you said you gotta get
helicoptered into there's a few yeah a
few yeah you'd be surprised because you
know we're here we're in a city we're so
used to our modern conveniences but
there are totally untouched pieces of
the world still well do you know David
Cho the artist I don't he he went to the
Congo I think was a Congo to look for a
dinosaur no it was a really early vais
piece back when vice was first starting
out and David is one of the more
eccentric people that I know he's a
multi-millionaire made a shitload of
money gambling and also he made a
shitload of money because he was at
Facebook painted yeah I painted Facebook
what does that mean to the wall yeah the
inside they hired him to paint like do
these murals and they gave him stock and
that stock wound up being worth hundreds
of millions of dollars and so he's just
this freaky super talented artist yeah
who is just doing weird shit and one of
the things they did was like hey man you
want to go look for a dinosaur he's like
okay I'll go absolutely why wouldn't you
but there's this video of him I want to
say he was like 25 at the time - I think
he was pretty young yeah look at him
there oh yeah so he's in the jungle in
search of a fucking dinosaur huh because
and it was one of those things where the
the locals were saying hey mister
there's a dinosaur in the Congo
right which doesn't totally make sense
but it but yeah but who knows right why
not investigate it kind of thing but I
mean how big of an area would there have
to be for there to be a species that we
are not aware of like how big of an area
oh I mean you know that's that's it's a
generic question because we discover
you'd have to look up the numbers but
it's like 2,000 new species a year right
little stuff but mostly little stuff
there's an animal discovered the most
recently there's an animal called the
Salwa it's an animal that I'm actually
working on later this year and it is a
an antelope like they call it the Asian
unicorn because for generations people
have been talking about this asian
unicorn and Western world's like yeah
whatever whatever whatever and then
finally somebody went down there into
the Laotian mountains and and was like
here's a skull and here's a skin and
they're like holy shit this is a real
thing and this is like in a pot not
populated but there's plenty of people
living there you know what I mean this
isn't like this isn't like the middle of
nowhere this is where there's villages
and tribes and people and they're like
here's this animal here's the skin
here's a skull and since then I think
one trail camera has the photo has ever
surfaced like nobody's ever successfully
documented it because it's just this
incredibly elusive animal like whether
it has super sensory organs you know
hearing sight smell whatever it is or
it's just super low density and
population nobody really knows but this
animal this this huge like antelope has
been around forever people little tribal
people have been talking about it in
like a mythological way the same way
they would talk about dinosaurs in the
Congo and the Western world is going
sure buddy whatever you say and then
somebody finally goes down there does an
expedition just like David did and goes
oh it turns out it's here Wow
what is it about animals where we're so
fascinated by the ones that might not be
real or that might be hidden like what
what is it about them we I mean people
love to study giraffes there are things
that are absolutely real but they also
have a even more compelling need to
search for things that are not quite
sure that I'm not quite sure if they
exist or not I don't know man I think
it's like it's human nature to want to
know more
like we of course like not everybody you
see a giraffe you're like it's real I
know it
banked it right some people go to the
extreme they study every aspect of it
but as a general populace I feel like
once we know something's there we want
to know what the next thing is yeah I
mean we what do you think like what why
why is it that we're so fascinated with
it I don't know the answer I think it's
probably a side effect of our compulsion
for innovation like human beings are
constantly trying to find out new
secrets aren't find you know like find
out new discoveries and invent new
things and fine explore new world yep I
mean this is just something that's been
a part of human nature forever this
desire to improve right and to go
further fund the next best spot but a
new thing you know and then I think that
also works with animals I think we have
this desire to find animals that we
didn't know a real or weren't sure real
well knowledge is the foundation of that
right to go to a new planet we have to
have the knowledge of how to get there
right to go to a new habitat we have to
know what's there and I think maybe
that's that's kind of that deep rooted
desire is like we need to know about
this thing in order to to understand if
we can innovate off of it
yeah maybe yeah what did you think when
they found that Flores man on in
Indonesia it's amazing like I'm not an
anthropologist so you know that's not
quite I've been a hundred percent is
that 100 percent agreed upon I've only
seen kind of headlines I have to defer
to you guys I think there was one there
was some scientist that was disputing
but but essentially they were talking
about a three-foot tall Hobbit like man
yeah kind of cave dwelling yeah little
person existed alongside human beings as
recently as like 14,000 years ago right
right which is like what I I think it's
completely believable I mean they're the
Kois and people in this Horan desert are
tiny you know they're they're a big like
four feet and until the you might have
to double-check this but I believe until
the 70s people used to go and hunt them
maybe it was earlier or 60s or 50s but
you could go and hunt this primitive
sized human being as like a pay you know
as like a hunt like an old Englishman
with his big moustache and his musket
would go hunt these people whoa and now
we have an understanding that you know
they're people like you can't fucking go
and hunt them but like what's to say
there weren't tribes like that all over
the world that other people used to hunt
that drove to extinction mmm Jesus
Christ
right what say the name of it again so
Jim you got it you got some koi Sam yeah
let me see what these people look like
they're in my opinion they're beautiful
like you'll see what you think but
they're they're very small they're
desert dwell you know there's not a lot
of resources in the desert so you don't
get huge so they're perfectly adapted to
the desert life they really used to hunt
them yeah and they look just like people
I mean you'll have but they're still
around like these aren't extinct race
they're still there oh wow yeah the
everything the gods must be crazy
yes yeah it's like those people those
were kind of taller Khoisan but those
are Bushmen so who these people used to
hunt these like I say I kid you not it
was like the old English explorer would
go and conquer Africa and and hunt these
people like they were an animal you know
fuck crazy right
this was until the 1970s that might not
be right that sounds too recent doesn't
know god damn that sounds horrific yeah
you might need to check that but it was
not as long ago as you'd think you know
I mean it was like very recently they
were still under under hunting and their
people yeah Jesus Christ yeah so that
that's probably what happened to a lot
of the non homo sapien human type people
I would think so and even if it's not
like for sport it's for competition or
resources or you know what any reason
yeah
and that's that's human nature conquer
yeah fuck man that is so dark right they
would go and hunt small people with a
rifle
yep you know it's nice if their photos
of people like posing with the dead ones
um again I'm not an anthropologist I'm
not sure yeah
it's brutal yeah mmm so what are the
pockets of the world are like mostly
unexplored or could perhaps contain some
of these animals South America for sure
Central Africa for sure there's some
very remote parts of like Russian Arctic
Norwegian Arctic
there's areas in Asia that are still
unexplored believe it or not regardless
they're populous they really are deep
deep China there's some very unexplored
areas northern Myanmar ecological hot
spot nobody goes there very impenetrable
I read something about there was some
part of the world where they thought
pterodactyls might still exist there's
so many of those things I don't know
that one specifically there's especially
doing what I do I hear them all the time
right no you got to go look for
Bigfoot's or pterodactyls or whatever
man that's it's you could there be a
large reptile that perhaps flies sure
it's possible
is there a pterodactyl as we know it I
highly highly doubt it but a large
reptile that could fly would be a
fucking trip they were around right so
do you think it would be something that
we don't know about like yeah basically
I think there's enough pieces of this
world that are unexplored that there are
still megafauna to be discovered know it
a lot not a lot by any means and I might
get ridiculed as I go back to my
scientific community for saying this but
my belief is there are these isolated
pockets where small populations of
megafauna still exist that we don't know
about whoa yeah well South America is I
mean how much of South America is
actually populated I mean you look at
the size of the Amazon jungle or
something and it's it's the sure there's
there's communities and stuff but not
that much I mean it's there it Australia
you know if you're not on the coast
there's nothing right yeah there's all
these huge chunks Papua New Guinea same
thing nobody goes up into the highlands
there they just found a dog there as you
saw I mean there's crazy stuff now what
do you think about these guys that are
talking about bringing animals back um
like as a scientist sure the extinction
is it's a weird word it is it is its
reintroduction is that they call it the
extinction so that's what they call it
yeah the extinction is to me it's
fascinating especially if it's something
like say the passenger pigeon right we
used to have billions of them in the
United States wiped him out and now
they're saying you know that we can take
the closest living relative isolate some
genes and make a new passenger pigeon is
that worth it because it's something we
wiped out in the last hundred years yes
I feel like that's
we should heal the ecosystem by putting
that back right that being said we still
need to learn from our mistakes like we
need to take into account what we did
and why we did it and like do I think
there should be a Jurassic Park and a
bunch of mammoths and t-rex is
absolutely not that's a waste whether we
can or cannot do it to me that's a waste
of scientific resources that could go
towards conserving things that are on
the brink
now when you say like heal or mend the
environment or the ecosystem when you
would bring back something like a
passenger pigeon isn't like 90% of
everything that ever existed extinct
sure absolutely does the ecosystem
adjust and evolve and would
reintroducing something like a passenger
pigeon would it kind of fuck things up
that exists now where new animals have
taken a different position on the
hierarchy it's too short an evolutionary
time so we are in what's called the
sixth mass extinction event right
there's been five others before us the
one we're in now it's happening at 80%
greater rate than it's ever happened
before
so we are wiping out things more quickly
than the world can adapt so you know you
go into an environment and you take out
all the apex predators the prey explodes
the prey explodes the grass gets eaten
down everything collapses now if you
left that environment over time a
revolutionary time it would adapt right
maybe say say all of the Predators got a
disease and they died out died out over
300 generations during that time
something would evolve within the
environment to adapt the prey so that it
didn't wipe out the environment that's
just kind of the nature's balance but
when you go in there and do it in ten
years or five years it throws off the
equilibrium so when you in theory when
you reintroduce something that's been
and it's not theory it's it's science
they've shown this even right here in
the California Channel Islands when you
put something back that's missing from
the ecosystem it's like you're putting a
piece of the puzzle back right and then
you can allow it to do its thing over
evolutionary time what did they do in
the Channel Islands so I was actually a
big part of that and I loved loved the
project so the California Channel
Islands were settled by agriculture
there were sheeps goats pigs bla bla
there was everything brought over there
right and so not catalina but think
about the northern Channel Islands what
happened was when all these animals were
brought in all the farmers were there
then Golden Eagles
coming over Golden Eagles came over to
eat the pigs and everything else flew
across the ocean yep
flew across the channel started preying
on pigs and everything else there was an
animal on the Channel Islands called the
channel on Fox a very gorgeous cute
cuddly little fox you can see him if you
go to Santa Cruz Island there's loads of
them now thanks to the work that
scientists have done anyway they were
like okay
the Fox is being there it is oh so the
Fox is being wiped out through habitat
destruction through all these undulates
that have been brought in so scientists
got together and what undulates like
cows yeah yeah domestic animals cows
sheep goats etc so scientists came in
and said you know the habitats getting
destroyed the and that that's just the
keystone there were several species that
were on the decline the cows are getting
the livestock is wiping out the habitat
the foxes are declining what do we do
well obvious answer let's remove all the
livestock so we removed all the
livestock right through helicopters
there's a lot of pigs that were causing
damage all that kind of stuff we removed
it all then the Golden Eagles started
preying on the Foxes because their main
habitat was gone so now the Foxes are
under even more pressure so then we
remove the Golden Eagles this is a very
abridged version of what happened but
now we've got the Golden Eagle also
pushed out the bald eagle which are fish
eaters which lived on the island
so now after loads of years of removing
Golden Eagles like relocating them
removing all of the livestock now you
have a healthy population of Channel
Island foxes the bald eagles are back
they're eating fish the whole ecosystem
is back in balance had it been left the
way it was what you would have found at
the californian Channel Islands over say
20 or 30 more years 40 or 50 more years
no foxes no no bald eagles a ton of
golden eagles and a ton of pigs and
likely over time pigs would have
exploded to the point that they Easter
Island themselves right they ate up all
the resources destroyed all the habitat
population collapsed Golden Eagles
collapse nothing left on the island what
do you mean by Easter Island themselves
so you're familiar with Easter Island in
South America I know what those statues
are and all that stuff but I'm not
familiar with what happened to cherylin
so that Island is was an ancient
civilization that was the mecca had
everything off land had big trees tons
of food blah blah blah blah people
settled there and they said this place
is incredible it's paradisiacal
and then they started cutting down the
trees to fish they started eating all
the mammals
and what actually happened is because
they were so remote the middle of the
ocean nowhere near South America nowhere
near anywhere else they cut down the
last tree there were no more canoes
there was no more food on the island and
the population collapsed the island was
barren it was void of trees void of life
void of anything and they didn't have
the canoes or anything to leave anymore
because they cut down the last tree to
build build a boat or make firewood and
everybody there died oh shit so that
that's what happens when you use up
every last resource God so Wow when did
this happen I couldn't couldn't tell you
yes I thought it was like a mystery to
like what happened to the population in
the Easter Island so they're pretty
that's your that's the accepted that's
the scientifically accepted understand
and did they get this from fossils they
get this from bones and is that so they
they've sort of pieced it together
yep they took they take you know isotope
samples and measure carbon dating and
yada yada I think that the heads are
still a pretty big mystery why I think
certain people believe that the heads
were like a nail you know calling to the
gods to help save things because they
were going so badly yada yada but I
believe the heads are still a pretty big
mystery but the actual anthropology the
population to collapse is is known to be
due to running out of resources how long
did it go for good holy do they have an
idea of how long the population lasted I
think it's all I think it's all
published yeah I don't know off the top
of my head but it was it was a thriving
population that you know flew too close
to the Sun is they said because of
Easter Island small size only 63 square
miles it quickly became overpopulated
its resources were rapidly depleted when
Europeans arrived on Easter Island
between the late 1700s in the early
1800s it was reported that the moai were
knocked down and the island seemed to
that I say that right moai be the night
have been a recent war site hmm last was
yeah see the next one their constant
warfare between the tribes the lack of
surprising resources disease invasive
species and the opening of the island to
foreign slave trade eventually led to
Easter islands collapsed by the 1860s
so it didn't take long 1,700 to the
1860s that was rap wow it was annexed by
Chile and so they've never tried to
repopulate the island with trees or
anything else and they're just kind of
leave it alone I believe so I know you
can go there and visit it and see the
heads and I think there are some things
there now but it's it's barren there are
no trees there's no you know it's all
been depleted it's so crazy when they
introduce animals to an island and it
winds up fucking everything up like
Galapagos Island you know and I'm sure
you're familiar with the Judas Judas
goats Judas goats are those the ones on
the Galapagos do you know how they do
that
I don't hate goats it's really
interesting not from that helicopters
yeah well this is how they do it they
cast goats like to hang out together
right but sometimes hard to locate them
so they put a radio collar on one goat
they castrate it and then they let it
loose and they gunned down all the goats
around it and let that go go find the
rest of the goats no it goes and finds
the rest that goes then they gun down
those goats because they have the radio
collar yeah so these what is this James
or a picture of a Judas coat I guess was
just wife's how sad is that single goats
life he's like new friends fuck yeah
helicopter so I'm actually heading there
on Monday the guard goes yeah they make
you take your shoes off right scrub to
make sure they didn't have weird seeds
in the bottom of your shoes I have to
stop eating seeds quarantine for 48
hours when we arrives I'm an eating seed
so you don't shit it out exactly Wow
yeah quarantine for 48 hours yep
Wow why is there so much concern about
this one area I mean it's the dawn of
evolution you know it's where Darwin
came up with a theory of evolution due
to the finches it's it has been
destroyed in some aspects and it's been
the habitat has been fixed in a lot of
places there's been great conservation
efforts and personally I love what
they're doing because they're trying to
keep it pristine you know I think it's
fantastic that there's a quarantine I
think it's great that I'm not supposed
to eat seeds for two weeks before going
there mm-hmm and it's it's to keep it as
perfect as it is now the island that I'm
going to with with my small team has
like nobody ever stepped foot on it it's
an active volcano that erupts every year
it's this crazy harsh environment we
have to have a new pair of boots every
day because
melts and shreds your boots just walking
on it whoa yeah it's been described as
hell on earth so I'm stoked Wow no we're
kind of protective gear do you have to
wear other than your boots just
long-sleeved clothing I mean if that
does it yet it's so the guy was telling
me it's like 45 degrees Celsius so
that's it's well over a hundred and yeah
and that's you know we got to be careful
about water and hiking and there's just
there's a lot of elements but that's the
thing is I'm looking for an animal
nobody's seen in a very long amount of
time so you got to go to these places
nobody's going Wow
that's incredible you know it's it's
interesting the idea of invasive species
too right because like Hawaii's a good
example
yeah Hawaii there's been talk of getting
rid of pigs yep and a lot of the natives
I like will slow down because if they're
what we hunt them we eat them right if
they're invasive then what are we right
totally the pigs were here right around
the same time the people were there and
they've we've existed together there
they need each other and its culture you
know at that point it's it's Polynesian
culture to eat a fire roasted pig and
hunt your Pig and so it's a delicate
balance like Hawaii is a perfect example
there's monkeys that were introduced
that destroyed the birds and there's
Turtles there's frogs there's all kinds
of things that have been brought in
there but none of those are culturally
significant whereas the pig as you're
saying is a huge cultural significance
so where is the balance well one of the
best examples of that would be like
lanai because lanai has this insane
population of access to here we go and
bow hunt them there every year they're
delicious and yep they're plentiful and
it's one of the most really ethical
hunts cuz you have to hunt them raining
they they're so overpopulated there's
20,000 of them on an island with 3,000
people yep and have you ever been to
lanai I have yeah is diving there
spearfishing they're everywhere Lanice
it's great and they're so beautiful with
their spots and yeah they're amazing and
you know I'm all for it like hunting is
a tool for conservation absolutely yeah
but it's just bizarre that they did that
you have to decide to let deer loose on
an island with nothing to eat the deer
but people right and then when this is
done there's like King Kamehameha which
is what year was that I couldn't say a
long time ago yeah a long time ago so
back then they
you know they had guns I mean how are
they hunting these things back then bows
and Spears are probably right and and
they brought them over from Asia right
yep yep they're from Asia
same thing with New Zealand right
there's axis deer there's goats there's
all kinds of things but red deer there's
all kinds of things down there yeah
and same thing they're all brought in
for sport yeah New Zealand's a weird one
right so is Australia they brought a lot
of stuff over there from yep from Europe
but New Zealand specifically they were
trying to make it like a hunter's
paradise and I think it is right tell me
I'm wrong no it does it's a weird one
because it's mostly high fence you're
gonna love this so under my extinct
animal thing they took moose in the New
Zealand they took like ten of them small
population believe that they've been
hunted out you know they shot the last
one blah blah blah blah there's one guy
crazy lookin dude long hair long beard
like nuts looking guy and he's been on
the hunt not hunt hunt but like trying
to prove that the New Zealand moose is
still there he's found antler sheds he's
found bedding sites some guy even got a
picture of one standing on a rock and
you know moose to me it's 100% of moose
brand so they're in theory somewhere
down the South Island there's one or two
or three of these super elusive moose
that have been in New Zealand for like
50 years
whoa Wow well New Zealand is so fucking
rugged yeah there's a friend of mine has
been there my friend Adam green tree
he's been there he lives in Australia
and he goes there to hunt tar mm-hmm and
you know they live and on the steep
steep
craggy Assael where the rocks real
slippery and it's just like cold shit
and yet really high altitude and you've
seen them before right yeah yeah it
looks like a science fiction animal
there as that's me and my friend might
mean the guys I work with like to say
stranger than fiction you look at it and
you're like that's not a real creature
like some kid drew that yeah like a big
ol shaggy weird-looking things area
where they think they are in New Zealand
the moose yeah did you see that picture
of the one on the rock
yeah sticking out right yeah that's the
last one that was Tait last picture
taken oh there's 1952 there's a recent
one though there's one from like two or
three years ago and I looked at it I'm
like that's a moose like I don't know
who's saying it's not but it's a moose
Wow
yeah from 1952 mm-hmm yeah that's 100%
of moose right but again how weird is it
that there's animals that you know are
there and then there's animals like we
must find this so you spend incredible
amounts of time and all these resources
that it that's all yeah that's 100%
that's freaking Moo that's no doubt
about it see what I'm saying people yeah
that doesn't even make sense that
anybody would argue that right that's a
pretty clear picture but that's not
proof because they need genetic material
they need fur they need something what
do they think that is a cloud exactly a
rubber moose that someone's stuck to
goof on people are they like arguing
that somebody could a computer generated
it yeah rolling all those you know all
those and I appreciate it right as a
scientist I appreciate the fact that you
have to have proof right but it does get
to the point of ridiculousness
yeah well it's certainly possible yeah
it's certainly possible that they've I
mean especially you're looking at that
insanely dense terrain right you know
right but so there are some efforts
right now to try to distinct some
animals there are thank you yeah and
like what did what is currently going on
right now they're calling it the dawn of
de-extinction and it's it's a lot of
very very intelligent genetic scientists
that are trying to isolate specific
genes that are specific to the animals
that have been extinct and putting them
into extant animals animals that are
still here to basically make this
Frankenstein animal because it'll never
be the animal that's gone right it will
look like it'll behave like it it'll
think like it etc but it will never
actually be the animal that we've lost
at least not yet we haven't we don't
have that technology right now what we
can do is isolate a genome put it into
an existing animal that gives birth to
an animal that looks and acts very much
like the extinct animal but it's some
degree different because it's like part
like a mammoth for instance they would
have to take some DNA from a mammoth
right that they would somehow or another
get and introduce it to an embryo of
Mahomet of an elephant and then the
elephant would give birth to a very
hairy very large tusks like these
isolated genetic code
mmm elephant rain it would look like a
mammoth it would act like a mammoth but
the reality is it's a shaggy elephant
with big tusks right so if you did like
23andme on it it would show it's mostly
elif exactly a little bit of yeah I mean
if you think of a double helix like a
DNA strand right you have these little
bars in the middle of it so what they do
is this is a very crude way to explain
it but they pull out a bar from an
elephant and they put in a bar from a
mammoth and then eventually you get this
mammoth and so this would be like gene
editing tools like CRISPR exactly in
those lines exactly Wow and so how far
away are they from doing this it's I
mean it's been successfully done a
couple of times they've really yep
they've given birth to a couple animals
that are very very close to the extinct
animal most of the time there's problems
right there's it's infertile its it has
lung issues whatever it is there's a
couple different cases I'm not a
geneticist I'm a wildlife biologist so I
don't really understand it but it's
they've done it they have successfully
reproduced things that are gone
basically clone things and then the
animal hasn't made it to adulthood and
that seems really really like playing
God it is absolutely like playing God so
I feel like I mean are people doing it
just because they can is it one of those
things or zero like a real valid
scientific reason for trying to
reintroduce these animals or D extinct
them well the valid reason is to
conserve the ecosystem right like we
talked about but I think he goes back to
what we were saying half an hour ago
which is it's just that that quest for
knowledge that can we do it the
innovation right can we play God can we
fix it can we take this thing that's
gone and say no it's not like we have
the tools to make it not gone yeah there
was some article that I read where they
were talking about reintroducing the
mammoths to Siberia and that there would
be some ecological benefit to
reintroducing the mammoths because of
the way they forage for food they would
have some sort of an effect on global
warming I mean do you know about that I
don't know about that specific so you
can find that Jeremy the reintroducing
the mammoths to Siberia to benefit the
environment
look whether that's accurate or not
until you put mammoths on the ground how
do we actually know it's a great theory
and that's what science is right it's
coming up with hypotheses and then
trying to prove them and it sounds cool
like do I want to see a mammoth walking
around Siberia fuck yeah but does that
mean it's actually good for the world
hard to say whoa could bringing back
mammoths help stop climate change
scientists say creating hybrids of
extinct beasts could fix the Arctic
tundra and stop greenhouse gas emissions
don't understand that I find it hard to
believe to be honest maybe it's just
some scientists clever way of sneaking
it in because he wants to play God okay
yeah we're gonna fix everything yeah
fucking use coal who gives a shit
yeah that's that's sadly very real well
is it really oh yeah I mean look if
you're a scientist right right you Joe
Rogan is a scientist how are you gonna
make your career are you gonna make your
career by raising money through being
like yeah sure like I'll study cricket
legs or are you gonna be like look give
me the money to stop global warming by
bringing back fucking mammoths like
right you know like why you can make the
outrageous claim if you think it's gonna
fund your research right that's how you
make your bones right and that's that's
one of the sad realities of some
certainly not all science well mammoths
too are so iconic it's such a freaky
animal to study you know we had them
here
California Channel Islands yeah bring me
mammoths yeah how long ago is that I
want to say pre Ice Age not actually
sure mmm but I mean still can you
imagine like you know you're out fishing
at Catalina and you look up and there's
a pygmy mammoth on the cliff there's a
there's so many mammoth tusks in Alaska
in particular there's a there's an
Instagram page we could send it to you
Jamie
there's a page where they go and look
for them
and they they they basically use like a
high-pressure hose and blow them out of
the side of a hill it's like an eyesore
is it in like earth it's an earth yeah
okay the boneyard Alaska is the
Instagram page if you go to the boneyard
Alaska you'll see
what I'm talking about it's fucking
incredible I mean they keep pulling
these they're using these hoses and
cleaning off this dirt and they're
pulling these intact tusks that's insane
if it must have been so many of them
that died and they're preserving whether
it's mudslides or ever and they get
preserved under these things there's
this one pocket where they're all
concentrated well they're parently they
find quite a bit of them that's not yeah
any one of those in the in the studio
mammoth tusks yeah man seems like like
ivory yeah yeah you don't want to add
some rich assholes house totally what is
that a cigar with skull Oh
short-faced bear skull hole fuck that's
a cool animal that's a cool animal yeah
we've we've drooled over those banks
many times on the podcast
see right there you see those tusks oh
yeah those are tough laugh but yeah
bottom line right there
those are some tough that they pulled
out that's nuts yeah there's a ton of
them man I mean these guys these guys
are constantly doing this and pulling
these things out so let me ask you
you're hiking through there right you're
uh you're on a hike or a hunt or
whatever you stub your toe on one what
do you do you dig it out and put on your
pack leave it
take a picture what do you do I don't
know what the rules are like if you're
in certain places and you find an
arrowhead you're supposed to leave it
but rules aside like ethically what do
you do well it depends on how far away
you are right because they're you that's
a lot of weight said that's that's fair
that's fair let's say you mark it a mark
a pin on a GPS and come back because
it's like it's something you want right
as a human being it's a treasure like
you found this incredible thing but
ethically you should probably shouldn't
touch it you know what do you do well
these guys obviously know what they're
doing right for me I would I mean if
look at that one oh my god that's crazy
it is you'd wrap it up with tape is that
what they did there to like it looks
like all those metal thing to hand it
together sort of I like to keep it from
falling apart maybe as they pull it out
of the water or the other dirt rather um
if I was thinking of my best me yeah the
best me would mark a pin and then alert
status and tell them where it is and
leave it the fuck alone don't be a
greedy dick so what happens in our
spring cut I dig that bitch out and put
pack right not tell anybody and bring it
back home I just don't know what the law
is sure and even beyond the law like
here's this gentleman right here it's
pulling this out even if you don't know
what the law is what's what's right
that's the question right what's right
what's the right thing to do yeah there
might not be a good law yet right but
there might be if I mean there clearly
is a finite number of these things of
course there has to be and they're
prehistoric now let me let me pose this
to you so I know a guy is treasure
hunter by trade very cool old guy
Australian guy lived in Perth and for
years he's like I know where this
certain Spanish ship went down long
story short he finds it right digs up
one single gold coin he's like it's here
I know it's here it's big spearfishermen
adventure guy goes spends tens of
thousands of dollars not a rich man
spends tens of thousand dollars got gets
all this excavator equipment goes to
this very remote area of north western
australia pulls up something like 10
million dollars worth of treasure takes
it home
legally declares that all tells tells
the government gets all confiscated they
give him three or four pieces you can
see his treasure in the museum in Perth
here's this guy who would have retired
been a wealthy man you know had his
whole life taken care of because of this
thing he was obsessed with and then
found and then got the tools on his own
dime to go and get it declares it and
has it confiscated dude well that's
weird because you find stuff in the
ocean and they take it and people become
billionaires right they find Russian or
Roman chefs ships filled with gold coin
resin but for whatever reason like this
was considered like history historically
valuable so it was taken for the museum
right and he got yeah a few coins and no
money I I got to look up the guy's name
I know a similar story it's happened in
America okay the guy that was went to
hunt it got investors right and when he
got the gold he just kept it when
investors asked for the money he shorter
said I don't know you're talking about I
lost it or I don't know where I put it
or I don't know where it is so he's I
think he's currently in jail under
contempt of court
oh geez being asked where is it and he
said I don't know it's taking a lot of
Tector tests it people think his kids
have it or something like that but they
have no idea where it is
it's a crazy story well that's a weird
one too because like what are you gonna
do with it right like if people are
staring at you they're there like
constantly look where is it where is it
you like I don't have it they're gonna
keep looking like how much is it worth
millions mmm I think each coin might be
worth a million you might have something
like twenty to thirty of them it's like
a lot of money it's insane
well you got to bring it to someone
who's gonna give you a piece you know
you got to bring it to someone but then
then you're gonna get caught where'd you
get the Brad million Ben what exactly
sound it yeah well it's interesting when
things are historical right you don't
know like who does it belong to museum
doesn't belong to the person who finds
it right like what are the what are the
rules and are we making these rules up
as we go along it's yeah it's worth 20
million there's I found a story it's
still in jail right now Wow
jailed treasure hunter ordered to pay
nearly 20 million this is tommy Thompson
tommy Thompson yeah that sounds like the
kind of guy yeah what is that island
there's one island that has like this
crazy hole in the ground that was made
by pirates like Captain Cook or someone
like there's a television show about it
you know the curse of Oak Island yeah
that's the show yeah yeah it's up in
Canada right Canada yes and they have
some crazy hole in the ground right
they're trying to figure out how to get
into but there's all these weird little
traps and yep that's exactly right yeah
what do they thinks in there some
astronomically valuable treasure right
and I believe the islands changed hands
like seven or eight times because people
trying to find it have gone broke
digging it up excavating and exploring
it and there's booby traps and like all
this crazy stuff yeah there's some sort
of a method that they've devised where
if you go deep enough it just fills up
with water so you can never get to the
actual treasure itself right so the
people mate who put the treasure there
might have fucked themselves like Dudley
we're assuming they're so smart that
they buried the treasure in a way that
nobody can ever get it out but they
might have just burned it in a way that
they couldn't even get it out I think
that's the case I think it's one of
those like oh we're gonna keep it here
and then they couldn't get it I mean who
knows but yeah what a crazy story yeah
so do they know who did it
I'm not sure see if you find something
on the Oak Island so that television
it's just like they're just like going
well now what right I think they're just
digging and trying so you can't suck all
the water out right cuz he's getting
water from the ocean what's up sea level
so yeah just you know constantly filling
up right unless you go down there with a
submarine I think they put divers in it
they've had metal detectors day I don't
really know I I'm not super familiar
with the show I just know someone that
was there and yeah I think it's this
pretty serious ongoing thing which
buried treasure right remember when you
were a kid there's x marks the spot the
coolest yeah the cool tonight the
so-called Knights Templar cross is one
of the most exciting treasures found
there really but they found it so-called
says upon first glance it resembles a
Knights Templar cross do they have a
picture that I think that's all right
here mmm-hmm so yeah when they find
these if they've in their open ocean
when they find these things it's whoever
finds it gets to keep it right if it's
anything some water I believe so
so only have like these ancient Roman
ships but you still have to bring it
back into port and declare it you know
what makes it historically valuable like
I think there's it's a lot I feel like
there's a lot of loopholes where you can
get screwed out of your find yeah man
yeah it's that's a weird one who owns
that right who knows yeah I don't know
it's it's just interesting to me that
there were so many ships that went down
that you can find these things in the
ocean still yeah then they're filled
with gold these crazy ships and people
people retire off of it and you know
spend their whole career and lose every
dime they have trying to find one yeah
and how they coordinate do they'd read
like old logs or something like that and
try to figure out which way that people
went and I have no idea hmm man so what
are their like crazy trips do you want
to do that you haven't done yet there's
a lot man I mean the one that I've had
on my bucket list since Howser so
there's a couple one is there's one
really one place on earth left where
there's true cannibals
it's Papua New Guinea and unlike the
missionary that went in you know with an
agenda I would just love to actually see
these these cannibalistic tribes so I'd
love to do that
nobody has successfully unless it's
happened very recently and I'm not aware
of successfully done source to see if
Congo River from guerilla warfare from
crazy waterfalls disease that's an
expedition I'd like to try and then when
it comes to wildlife I mean the list is
infinite there's so many of these
animals that I'm desperate to try and
find those sound like very dangerous
trips like visiting cannibals yeah I
mean like I don't know how to say this
without sounding arrogant but that's
what sounds exciting to me right you
know is giving that shot that other
taking that shot that other people
aren't taking so have people visited
these cannibals and come out of there
yeah yep there was a there was a NatGeo
photographer who got some incredible
photos there called the car away tribe
and he went in there took him a while
for them to kind of assimilate and get
comfortable and then he got these photos
that are just mind-blowing now how often
do they practice cannibalism
it is a it's not a daily thing it is a
spiritual thing where they actually eat
the eat the other tribes deceased after
a war or an inter tribal conflict as a
way to like ward off bad spirits so it's
not like a daily thing it's not like
they're going out hunting each other
it's more like when these things
occurred they they have to eat a certain
kill or a certain body to keep evil
spirits at bay do they get that version
of mad cows disease that cannibals get
was it Jakob skrutz fell I know what
you're talking about I'm not sure I
think it's probably infrequent enough
that they're not getting it because like
in the in the South Pacific they got
that all the time but they were eating
each other like all the time yeah well I
think you get it from nerves right and
nerve tissue or brain brain yeah that's
where it's essentially mad cow disease
exactly yeah yeah is this guy hanging
out with them there it's their song the
sound and he's eating something I don't
think people with is gonna eat a fucking
person that's yeah but yeah I look at
the tribe I mean they're just look
amazing yeah but it's just so incredible
that there's still people that live the
way they live many many many thousands
of years ago and they essentially just
get their resources from the land for
any area they live and they're they're
just rockin and old-school and then for
me like the cultural significance is
huge but what's the biological area like
you're right nobody's going in
how much biological studies been done
the answer is none and these people have
large property look at that lady
is she amazing Wow yeah
have you read sapiens sapiens no I'm not
evolutionary book about what you've all
her Otte I think that's the name of his
he's amazing riding around yeah it's a
it's a great book but one of the things
that they talked about in the book was
these nomadic tribes that would yeah
that's it you've all know a herati I
fucked up his name they would talk about
these nomadic tribes that would kill the
old ladies like killed the people that
were burdens and like just shows like
them know just kill them just talking
about like what people became a problem
right it would just kill him and this
was normal but they got along together
great sherry was like laughing and
smiling everybody's really friendly but
as soon as someone seemed to be a
problem they fucking Club them from
behind and just it's like this is gonna
sound just awful but doesn't that make
sense
it kind of does it sucks but it kind of
does right like you're a burden on the
community or on the society you know
there's no fucking old folks home out
there yeah like that's it's crazy like
to us in our culture that's absurd but
as a culture removed from the rest of
the world makes sense like you're a
burden you know you've had a good life
it's time to move on and they're nomadic
that's the other thing it's like they
have to keep moving so if someone stops
and they're like there's one guy he was
sick and so they left him on a tree and
he became covered with buzzard shit
because the vultures would just sit over
him and wait for him to die but he
eventually recovered home and he caught
up with the rest of the tribe and for
the rest that they called him something
like Buzzard shit that was their
nickname for him yeah imagine being that
guy imagine sitting under a tree looking
up at vultures being like it's moments
till I die and they're gonna drop down
and eat me at least they're polite
enough to wait for you to die it's true
if they don't just the guy probably
couldn't a fall
they're the trickiest of all the the
animals that the matriarchal society of
them with a theme
have the fake dicks they're amazing how
bizarre so weird crazy faces crazy
biology and Anatomy you know that fella
form that cat-like but doesn't belong to
any family like yeah super weird in love
them they have a giant fake dick the
female trait of a giant fake dick they
give birth to they do put birth out of
rather yep yeah they have unbelievable
biting power too right yep the strongest
mammalian jaw pressure on earth what a
weird-looking animal ii don't like even
one shoulder and you know like totally
looks like a villain yeah yeah like it's
upper body is like higher than its lower
body it's been first strange very what
is it like when you encounter those in
the wild a sketchy very cowardly very
wary at all times like i've encountered
them a lot and as as it when you're in
africa if they're tall or if you're
taller than it generally won't attack
you so people get like super scared of
hyenas when i was a little boy i learned
if you're running in the bush and you
see a hyena stand up and put your arms
up like that they say that about cats
too right like like mountain lions look
at that motherfucker Jesus look at that
thing man
so cool it doesn't you know like Allah
oh it's so creepy looking yeah I love
when they a circle lions do like I think
when they get enough of them together
and they start circling and snapping at
the Lions legs and strength in numbers
yeah yep there's a documentary on this
one
male lion who would kill all these
hyenas and he was like the enforcer for
the tribe no way see how the hyenas come
in and fuck with the female lions and
Wow
giant male would come out of nowhere and
there's video of it video of him
smashing these hyenas just grabbing them
with his giant head Oh shaking them
snapping them and tossing him in the air
and then chasing after another one and
and and killing them too unreal no I
haven't seen that that's amazing have
you ever seen relentless enemies ever
seen that documentary release no no no
it's um it might be on Netflix dude I've
got so much homework - yeah right listen
amis is a documentary about a very rare
pack of lions that branched that the
river changed its course and left them
stranded on an island
with water buffalo okay so they they
developed like a much larger frame and
they're like far larger than regular
lines like the female lions in this pack
are as big as male lions anywhere
they're enormous they don't even look
real
is this relentless yeah it's from 2006
oh it's not very old also book oh okay
but what's really cool is that they've
evolved to take down these enormous
Buffalo sure so the the cats when you
look at them they look like a lot that
looks normal there but it's all relics
like a normal one but some of them look
so muscular yeah they almost look fake
all he's getting is oh wow she's getting
the calf
yeah Cape Buffalo are terrifying too by
the way fuck yeah yeah she's like let
that go
fuck it but there's you know very few
things that they can eat on this one
island so they're developed this ability
to just have larger frames and they're
much more muscular and apparently
there's that what's really interesting
is there's this pack that's really big
but then there's another pack that lives
on the island that's normal-sized huh
yeah so they must be eating the smaller
prey species I don't know man I'm too
stupid but it's the same thing so a size
of that fucker
look that's look at the musculature in
the hindquarters yeah I mean she's built
like a male she's I look like a large
male lion I mean that is like steroids
yeah that's a big female yeah I made
they're the same thing that happened in
Newfoundland Canada with the wolves you
love wolves so there was this island
Newfoundland and there's wolves gray
wolves were isolated there for a long
long time and they all they were eating
were moose and caribou so they just got
huge and they were bright white because
it was a snow-covered island like 80% of
the year and there were just these
massive white wolves all jacked all
shredded chasing around moose and
caribou Wow yeah it's just the way
nature allows animals to adapt to their
environment it's just unbelievably
interesting that's it's what I live for
honestly it's so fascinating the the the
ecological niches that each animal like
fulfills and the roles that they play
within each other it's all perfectly
balanced and
to see it and understand it like it's
fantastic to see the individual but to
understand the big picture of the
environment and the roles that are
filled as you say it's like it's
mind-blowing
yeah there's a documentary on the Congo
from the BBC from I want to say like the
early 2000s
maybe even late 90s and it goes into
that into detail about how all these
animals have adapted and like dijkers of
the hikers in the Congo that swim
underwater for as much as a hundred
yards no hay fish some of them eat fish
a fish eating antelope antelope that
swims nuts yeah and then all these
animals that got trapped as the the this
area of these grasslands turned into
rainforests these animals that were
essentially like grasslands animals like
antelopes and stuff are stuck right in
the fucking jungle the swampy jungle and
you see like these in these big packs of
like antelope running through this
swampy jungle area where they just don't
look like they belong that long in
fields and that's how speciation occurs
right so that dykey over a millennia
develops fangs to catch those fish in a
crocodile like face and webbed who's or
you know I don't know and making shit up
but the point is that's how you get
these crazy new species and here in the
middle of Congo in this tiny little
pocket is this animal that nobody's ever
seen before kind of thing and that like
to me that's what it's all about go to
the Congo find that thing you know is it
there what is it that's why someone like
me is so incredibly thankful to someone
like you out there I don't go there I
want to look at your Instagram page I
guarantee you'd love it I'm sure I love
hundred percent sure I'm a hundred
percent sure you're right I'm also
hundred percent sure I'm not going but
I'm happy that you go
I mean it's thank you I'm I'm so
fascinated by animals and just animal
life and adaptation I think it's one of
the more interesting things about this
planet definitely is these weird
organisms that are trying to figure out
their way to to survival you know and
then we're seeing and moving and
changing and and we're always finding
new ones like I found a fucking snake I
posted it up on on Twitter like a week
or so ago a snake that has a tail that
looks like a fake spider mm-hmm have you
seen that fucking thing I'm not sure
what do you know the species of it I
know the species it's Brian I think it's
from
I think it's from Iran and Viper yeah
scaled scaled pit viper is that it yes a
Viper not a snake orange Viper horned
Viper have you seen that thing I know
what they are yeah it's incredible looks
like a spider right and it tricks birds
into coming down and try to snatch the
spider here we go the Iranians spider
that Viper spider tailed Viper like look
at its tail that is crazy I mean I'm
looking at that in a video and it looks
like a bug right and so this thing moves
its tail and it perfectly blends into
the rock around it like look at that and
then that amount of camouflage and
adaptation like how does that happen
it's incredible this it's boom oh got
you bitch dunzo
the birds like what was that that almost
got me yeah this is insane Inc what an
adaptation I mean like you see the
anglerfish that's a very bizarre
adaptation yeah well same thing just out
of the head yeah yeah it's it's
unbelievable I mean the fact that
creatures can create that without you
know it's not like they're doing it
knowingly right Oh some some handful of
snakes at one time started wagging their
tail and realizing that birds came in
right and then over generational time
this tail evolved little spikes and
little things and all of a sudden you
have this whole population of animals
that look like that like that's a what
is it how the fuck does that happen I
mean how does something grow something
like that allure right grows a lure off
of its head I was like hey look it's
something for you oh my god it's got a
worm I mean that thing literally has a
like a fishing worm like a bass worm I
mean it's it's so amazing all of this
adaptation and all of these look at that
fucking monster with a light groan and
it's got a flashlight on her head but
just it's so amazing how much adaptation
there is and how all these things sort
of work together right like there's the
bacteria and the fungi and the plant
life and the animal life and the
Predators and the prey and it all sort
of works together and when something
doesn't work it just sort of drops off
and then the the the system sort of
resets itself exactly in a new
order I mean to me there is not you
saying it's one of the most fascinating
things to me there is nothing more
fascinating like I'm you know I'm
obsessed with it I live for it because I
find it so interesting now when you
study these things and do you ever try
to think like how the fuck that happened
like you see that that spider tailed
snake is there anyone that has like an
idea like that this was you know this
was just a lucky break that this one
snake had a freaky tail and then he got
the fuck a lot doesn't eat a lot of
birds that's the idea man you just I
swear to God you just summed it up like
that is the idea one or two or three
snakes kind of got this adaptation just
a random random genetic sequencing that
led to maybe a white watch on the tail
something unique doesn't it not seem
like that though it seems like they
fashioned it but over time over they did
but over millennia right over thousands
or tens of thousands or hundreds of
thousands of years the one what happened
was say there's two snakes with a white
spot on their tail then they have a baby
and it has little bit of deformation
right a little thing sticking out then
that snake all of a sudden catches more
birds than the rest of the snakes that
snake now reproduces offspring and it's
offspring that has a little bit bigger
of a spike catches more birds and so
those become the the prized animals to
reproduce with to continue the gene pool
and so that's what happens it keeps
evolving it's like a peacock right this
crazy big tail that it's attracting
mates with it's not useful to the bird
you know that's entirely made for
showmanship for peacocking if you will
and it over generational time it gets
bigger and crazier and more elaborate
more colorful and the females literally
flock to them and that's the animal that
continues on what I really wish there
was a way and maybe there will be some
time in the future where they're going
to be able to show you with like some
sort of supercomputer sequencing where
they'll be able to look at the DNA of
this thing and say oh this is the exact
progression right this is what it
started off with and this is what it
became right this is how some sketchy
looking forest chicken became a peacock
totally you know this is how some freaky
snake became perfectly adapted to its
environment I mean that thing looks
exactly like the rock that it's on it's
perfect yeah since it is in crowd
like I would I'm like you I'd love to
know who patient zero is you know who's
the who's the first one
yeah because stupid people like me look
at that and they go okay well that's got
to be a plan there's something there's a
higher power this is something that like
is looking after this things and writing
them making them evolve this way right
right it's no I mean it's it's super
interesting what about like cephalopods
like octopus and cuttlefish and the way
they adapt their environment that's even
freakier right they do it
instantaneously and have you ever heard
the theory that octopus are from out of
space yeah we talked about that with
Brian Cox the other day yeah I'm not I'm
not super well-read on it yeah like it
looks like a damn alien yeah he was very
incredulous but you know he's obviously
it's more than both of us right yeah
it's like me looking at tackling that it
doesn't make sense that of course it
doesn't make sense I'm stupid correctly
he's he's you know when we're looking at
this I but this is apparently like
peer-reviewed published paper about the
possibility of octopus being reintroduce
right on them right I know I don't
understand it well but yes it's like the
thought that the population came from
out of space because the DNA sequence II
and suggest something that makes it
extraterrestrial adaptability yeah he
was super skeptical because he was
saying that they're essentially so close
to everything else here right it doesn't
make sense but the other theory was it
might be just this is the path of life
right and the reason why it's so close
to us is that this is the way all life
even if it's extraterrestrial sure gets
established sure I just I don't believe
octopus from out of space but I love the
theory I love the idea of it it looks
like it's from outer space you know it's
just wacky well it's such a cool thought
yeah you know things came from out of
spaces so well that's also a thought
about psilocybin mushrooms from the
weirder people that they came on
asteroids and spores I've heard that
yeah and they've I don't know if you
know this but they've proven that
certain I don't know about psilocybin
but certain mushroom spores are
impenetrable to the vacuum of space yeah
they can survive yeah that's bananas I
pick a lot of mushrooms not psilocybin
but a lot of porcini a lot of
chanterelles like I do a lot of foraging
it's really fun are you aware of Paul
Stamets no I don't know he's
amazing one of my favorite podcasts ever
he's a mycologist a fucking trip in
every sense of the word huh a
supergenius mycologist whoo the craziest
story about being in high school and
what do you say took 20 grams of
mushrooms and on to tree a lightning
storm but something fucking it's
something where you hear him tell the
story your hands start sweating away he
grabs 10 grams or 20 grams like
something fucking bananas like something
that would kill moose yeah well it
wouldn't kill it but it would definitely
make it think it's not a moose anymore
right and and it essentially changed his
life stopped him from stuttering he used
to stutter and he did this and he
stopped stuff no way yeah I've heard
about guys that microdose with mushrooms
with psilocybin and it heightens their
focus and curse or autism and you know
there's I'm not very well-read on that
but there's a whole idea that micro
dosing with these chemicals that are
naturally produced can actually have
very positive effects yeah there's quite
a few people do that the only common
yeah yeah I've talked to a lot of people
that do that it really goes with that
and they also micro dose of the LSD
there's a lot you have a lot of Silicon
Valley people are micro dosing with LSD
it's funny cuz the one person that I
know that's done the micro desing with
mushrooms from Silicon Valley yeah
people grind them up into pill form and
and in fact a lot of Fighters are doing
that now really strange yeah so what
would that why would that help you like
as a fighter is it it's not a mental
focus thing it's a it's a physical thing
at that point right well it's gets you
into the flow state interesting and so
like with fighters the real thing is
it's not just your skill but it's your
ability to execute that skill under
pressure alright so there's an
overwhelming amount of anxiety there's
extreme consequences to getting hit or
going wrong getting knocked out the
losing a fight is absolutely devastating
it's devastating emotionally it's
devastating physically it's devastating
psychologically it changes your
perception of who you are and how you
fit into the world and that sometimes
and not I shouldn't say sometimes
oftentimes in peds performance sure I'll
kind of come back from it kind of thing
it's not just that though the
consequences of it possibly go wrong
make you hesitate and it just it's it's
the stress of it all this very
strictly it's very difficult to operate
under that stress sure the mushrooms for
some people alleviate that stress and
put you in this elevated state where
they say and I haven't I've never fought
on mushrooms but they say that when
you're on mushrooms you actually can see
what a guy's gonna do before he does it
interest yeah you have a sense of what
they're gonna do that's a much more
heightened sense than you would if you
were just in a normal silver state
so are you pickin do you think you're
picking that up through like biological
cues like you could see the muscles
twitching in the arm before the punch
comes or like what how do you think
that's a good question they've done it I
don't know you know I've never sparred
on mushrooms or sound like a good idea
but that's really common they say it is
a good idea the guys who do it love it
yeah interest and guys have like you
know had some real extreme positive
results huh yeah that's fascinating I
never thought as an athletic performer
that athletic enhancement that would be
a thing yeah it's it's not just the no I
don't think it makes you move faster or
hit stronger or hit harder but I think
what it does is it puts you in the zone
interesting there's there's states that
you get into where you just you can't do
no wrong and these are usually very
elusive they come and they go
you know you get them like do you ever
play pool I did a little bit I mean but
you know how sometimes you play pool for
a few hours and then you just awesome
yeah you just have this feeling of where
everything's gonna go that's even if
you're not very good sometimes those
little conflict to tree shots at
sheriff's the zone sure you know and
that elusive state of like RIT and then
sometimes you're like wow I can't
believe I'm in the zone then it goes
away right you know right maintaining
that flow state what do you think it
takes emotions out of it like is that is
that why you're in that state like if
you're not emotionally attached to that
shot or that punch maybe you can execute
it better it's possible I mean there's a
lot of speculation of what's going on
right what's causing this elevated state
of consciousness it's interesting yeah I
don't know I'll just start micro dosing
on mushrooms and going out che snakes
around maybe like maybe you have you
like more in tune with the environment
or maybe I get bitten and - that's true
- really hello to the snake yeah
fuck you you are okay so I'm not I'm not
like a big drug guy by any means but I
think you'll love this story on this
amazon trip I told you about we land in
this airstrip and then this plane we
meet we get into this village and I'm
like cool boats have made it here it
took the boats five days we're gonna
head upriver right and are like
translators like you can't do that yet
what do you mean like we've spent months
planning this he's like you have to have
the shamans blessing to go upriver and
I'm like okay what does that mean he's
like come to the maloca which is the
like spiritual house we go to the
spiritual house we sit around and we
talk and we talk and we talk and it's
like hours of not like asking him to go
but just like almost like idle
conversation where he's almost like
interviewing us like well what are you
doing where are you going where are you
from and he doesn't really understand
any of this right he's like he's living
in this community long story short he
goes okay you can go but you have to
take this blessing and we're like sure
well whatever you need for us to go so
he pulls out the snail shell I could
show you a picture of it it's a snail
shell with a monkey bone in the top and
a tube worm to close it and in the snail
shell is this green powder and he's like
this is what you need for the blessing
so he goes around the circle and threw a
monkey bone pipe he blows this green
stuff in your nose
they're called the Kouhei not nothing
like that word that we heard I couldn't
the name of the pipe no no the stuff
they blow up your nose is it DMT it's
coca leaf Oh mixed with a bunch of a
root and tobacco I believe like all
together and anyway so he goes there's
five of us in my crew he goes around the
circle and he hits three guys and they
all go oh my brain feels like I've got
chlorine on the head you know whatever
lows it into your nose yeah so it gets
really close it's got this long tubular
monkey bone pipe and it goes and it just
blows it up into your nose and hits
three of my guys and I'm watching a
little bit nervous because like I'm very
like standoffish on drugs like I I know
things affect me very strangely anyway
hits three my guys they go wolf you know
eyes watering and they're like wow it's
a it's actually a great feeling gets to
my turn in the nose all of a sudden I
feel like I've got acid on my brain like
chlorine in my head I break into the
sweat my eyes explode and I'm like
wobbling like this and it thirty seconds
later I'm just curled over in the fetal
position just project
vomiting cannot hold it together and
Lorenzo this the the tribal shaman goes
good good and we're like why is this
good and he's like he had a bad spirit
in him if he had gone up the river he
would have been killed he's just got the
bad spirit out this is why I had to
bless you now you can go and I was the
only one that it hit like that our five
person crew everybody else was like my
brain sore whatever
I was literally fetal position feverish
puking crate and I've never done any
drugs like hard drugs like it's just not
my thing and this thing just hit me like
a ton of bricks after he said that did
you think it was Europe I mean you're a
scientist you're very smart guy but was
there a part of you that was like man
this guy right yes that's what's so
crazy because I'm a fucking scientist I
don't want to believe that I don't want
to believe fucking jungle medicine made
me not die but this guy here I have
nobody else fucking affected I'm sitting
in the fetal position puking my brains
out and the guy's going good now you'll
be safe and the whole fucking trip I've
got that in the back of my mind going
maybe the whole reason nothing's going
wrong is because I just had green
fucking powder blow it up my nose
whoa yeah super weird and I nothing has
ever affected me like that I mean curled
up puking no shivering well you trying
to make logical sense out of this we try
it was it was there ever a thought we
were like maybe in this extreme
environment that's so utterly different
than any other place in the world that
these rules are different absolutely I
mean I I'm sitting there going going
into it I'm like cool yeah I'll do the
stupid powder if it means I can go on my
expedition you know what I mean like I'm
not like embracing it I'm just like
going through the motion to get my job
done as a scientist and then I had this
experience and I'm not saying I was
enlightened or awoken or anything like
that but all of a sudden I attributed my
success and my safety in small part to
this green fucking powder blown up my
nose by a shaman through a monkey bone
and the thing about it is even if that's
not true if you think it's true and then
you wind up being okay and you have
confidence that you're going to be okay
and maybe you have less anxiety and make
better critical decisions because you
think that everything's going to work
exactly exactly totally because I was
super focused on my mission right we we
were very very successful in what we set
out to do and I I feel like because I
had that crazy experience and here's
this old little jungle Indian going now
you're now you're gonna be okay I didn't
have any anxiety going into the
situation and before that I had no
thought of it ever playing apart well
like the mindfuck of the placebo effect
right totally we know that that's real
so there's a some sort of a physical
effect by believing that something works
right but is there a physical change in
the way you interface with reality if
you believe that you've experienced some
sort of spiritual enriching and that
some sort of some bad spirit has been
released from your body is that possible
I think so I think it changes your own
reality because of your perception of
the outside world that is a freaky thing
for a scientist to say right right and
and this is like I am a hardcore
academic I've never considered
spirituality religion anything and I had
this just fucking ten days ago this
crazy experience that is like changed my
mindset on on crazy jungle medicine and
drugs and catching animals everything
because this one guy blew crap up my
nose and I puked everywhere Wow now has
this made you one experiment with other
plant medicines no the only reason I did
that is because it was a necessity to do
what I was doing it was coming from an
expert if you will but a person who saw
it as a necessity to do what I was doing
and I was under his guidance mmm to go
out and you know pick a mushroom and try
it and have an experience is I don't I
don't see the benefit in that but when
someone who lives in that community
embraces that wild jungle says this is
my home and this is how you do it
I will absolutely do it so you'd do it
like out of respect absolutely yeah what
if they wanted you out of respect
there's a bunch of those different
snuffs that they pump up their nose and
one of them is I think it's it's some
form of five methoxy dimethyltryptamine
which is that stuff that comes off a
toads Oh gotcha yep there's there's and
it has a bunch of other stuff in it too
and they do the same thing that's what I
think that one's called a Kouhei
okay I've read it so I don't know if I'm
saying that right that must be a
hallucinogen yeah they blow it up your
nose and you see Jesus I mean look if it
was the same situation where he's
telling me you got to do this to go to
work do your job whatever and absolutely
I do it out of respect yeah wouldn't you
yes yeah yeah I think you kind of have
to totally be an asshole I mean I think
you know when you're in the world of
these people and they've survived in
this world for eons and this is their
environment and like you kind of kind of
have to let go and give in to this
absolutely yeah you have to embrace it
mm man don't you live a fucking cool
life it's weird it's really cool thanks
really cool well thank you for coming
here man and sharing this stuff with us
and and and thanks for doing what you do
it's fucking awesome I love it it's been
an absolute pleasure I've really enjoyed
it
what are you thinking about on the show
tell people how to get a hold of you and
Instagram Twitter and all that chance
yep I'm my name forest Galante forr est
Galante I'm on all the social media
platforms as it force.com on time on
Instagram yes on the others there's no
dot look me up love chatting to people
and thank you thank you again my
pleasure man was really fun thank you
thank you
[Music]
[Applause]